"This used to be my favorite place in all of the Canadian Rockies, but then they implemented the restriction to accessing down near the water and it’s not nearly as fun to explore. I remember just a few years ago going and being able to go into an ice cave on the right side of the pond, but now you can get fined $100s if you go down there. Give me a break. I get that a huge chunk of glacier fell off and tsunamied the place a few years ago, but come on. LET US EXPLORE AT OUR OWN RISK!"
What a hike to get to but well worth the steep climb camped there over night and it was so worth it . Seen the northern lights reflecting onto the lake itself felt like you were in a magical area.
"You need to pick up a ticket the day before at the visitor center in town to do the road (or they might let you go anyway). The drive up is nice with a few stops along the way, then you end up right at the foot of Mt Edith. The view is already impressive, but gets better as you take the nice trail on up and get a better look at the glacier, or at the climbers. We didn't go that far and still had great views and a great hike."
"This was probably the highlight of our stay in Jasper for me, as once you have walked along the footpath to the viewing point you have a fantastic view of the mountains, the glacier, Angel Waterfall and the small glacier lake below.At present the Parks Authority are carrying out major work to the car park at the top of the road to Mount Edith Cavell so parking there is very limited, you can only visit after obtaining a timed pass from the Tourist Information Office in Jasper. The passes are free and can only be obtained for up to three days in advance from the Tourist Information Centre in Jasper between 8am and 10am daily."
"Freshly made icebergs floating in the milky water of the round pond by the blue glacier at the foot of magnificent black (covered with lichens?) walls of the mountain, with another glacier hanging from the top of the mountain giving birth to quite tall waterfall, huge chunks of ice falling down from the glacier, scary moraines aside ridden by marmots and pikas... magnificent place, my favorite in Jasper. Going every time. It's everchanging but always breathtaking. Unfortunately, recently, access was limited both timewise (check visitor center for more info) and physically (part of the trail was was washed out in 2012, it's not advised to come down to the pond now).Good for short visit (0.5 km to viewpoint) or half a day hike."
"Beautiful glacier and wildlife views with a moderate hike. We saw a lynx off the side of the road on our way to the parking lot, and numerous birds and pikas on the trail."
We climbed up the mountain on a rough trail to the meadows. In our opinion it's not worth the effort.Better stay near the lake and walk up the Path of the Glacier Trail until the end of the rockpile. High chance of seeing marmots and Pika there.
"I have a knee that gives me grief so I have to be careful about hikes that are steep. This trail is a bit steep, but gradual so that it is completely do-able - especially if you go slow. The reward is a view of a gorgeous glacier, and a very nice hike that winds through areas of marmots and picas that aren't that concerned about the passing hikers. It was a lovely hike and we are so glad we went. Currently, construction is limiting the number of people who can go at one time so you have to get a pass in Jasper between 8-10am - an effort that takes a little planning but so worth it. I think limiting the number of people actually made it a more pleasurable experience for us. Lovely area."
"Pre-planned stop number two. Due to some construction currently in-progress at Edith Cavell, access was very restricted. Luckily we found this out a bit in advance. To get access/permission to go here, you have to go to the visitor center in Jasper village between 8-10am to get a pass. The lineup begins and 7:30am; we sent a couple of family members there early and we were lucky to procure passes for the next day. Obviously, the restricted access isn't going to last forever, but do check before you go.Edith Cavell itself was yet another beautiful stop. After a quick 15-20 minute hike up an incline, you reach the lookout point. It's a beautiful view of the glacier and the small lake it feeds down below. The beauty of so many of these glacier-fed lakes is the varying coloration with vivid blues and greens."
"Travel to Edith Cavell Mountain requires getting a pass. The passes are issued at the Jasper Information center right opposite to rail station on Connaught Drive. The passes are issued at 08:00 AM and decently long line forms by then. Passes are issued for three time slots a day for (anything remaining) that day and next two days. When went by later we noticed that there was no line which means if you don’t care for the slot you should get a pass. Pass is for window of time so if it is for 08:30 to 11:30 you are expected to enter in that window there is no one regulating when you should leave. I would recommend first slot as there are very few people. The parking area has bathrooms but no refreshments.Coming to the attraction, it is worth every bit. It has excellent hiking where one can go pretty close to the glaciers. There is a shorter hike of about 1.5 KM (up and down) that takes you to viewing points of Cavell pond, Cavell Glacier and Angel Glacier. There was a second more longer hike 9KM (up and down) which we could not do. I believe on the second one they don’t allow pets. Early in the day it felt cooler so take a light jacket with you. The view of the glacier and the valley on the other end with a lake at distance makes it a stunning view. Don’t forget to take notice of Ange” like formation of the glacier above that gives the name.Definitely worth a trip, I must say one of the most beautiful and serene scenery in the park."
"As other reviewers have said, a parking pass is necessary this year due to construction at the top lot. By the time we got ours the previous day, 11:30 was the earliest slot available, which we took. Maybe because rain was predicted for our day at the mountain, it wasn't crowded at all. The hike to the small glacial lake was partially paved and easy. Places to sit and informational plaques dotted the trail. Bits of broken off glacial ice floated in the turquoise water. We hiked up part of the alpine meadow trail, over a wide hill of rock pieces and took an apple break at the crest of those rocks, with a panoramic view of the lake below (people there looked like ants), glaciers, and the mountain valley. A chipmunk quickly ran off with my apple core; what a treasure! Marmots and pikas scurried around on those rocks, all looking very busy.We started to go higher on the trail, but by then rain was threatening, so we turned around and went back to the parking lot., just beating the showers.The switchback drive both up and back was interesting and pretty, too."
"Please note: due to roadworks on the carpark this year, the number of vehicles is limited to 180 per day, spread over four blocks: at 8.30am, 11 am, 2 pm or 4 pm (the road closes at 8pm) and you need a (free) parking pass to enter Mt. Edith Cavell road to the parking area. This can be picked up in person from outside the Information Centre between 8-10am up to 2 days before travel – and the queues can be long! We were lucky and managed to obtain one for 2pm. (8:30am would have been best, as you are the first to the trails, but it was still reasonably quiet!) The gate at the bottom of the access road is open from 8.30am and locked at 8pm for construction traffic only. You need to show your pass to the PC people before you begin the 14k ascent.The hike up to the glacier pool was beautiful with benches along the way to sit and take in the beauty of the glacier and the pool below - a stunning colour with icebergs floating. If you are able and have the time, hike on to the meadows where the views are spectacular and the wild flowers in August were beautiful. We adored the whistling marmots on the boulderfield sitting atop the rocks and surveying their territory, and the pica were adorable, scuttling around with mouths full of grass collecting their winter stores! We didn’t manage the whole route, but enough to appreciate the wonder of the place. Not to be missed!"
"Visiting Mt. Edith Cavell requires a trip to the info centre in Jasper the day before to pick up the free pass. This inconvenience is definitely worth it. Beautiful views, and great hiking with a couple of different peaks. The second peek was tough (steep, cold, windy), but very worth it. We completed the hike with three kids (ages 10-14), who enjoyed thoroughly and had no difficulty. The kids loved the many pikas and marmots along the trail. We spent a good 4-5 hours here, including a break for a packed lunch. Recommend getting the earliest pass available so you are not rushed for time."
"Currently, the number of vehicles is limited per day and you need a parking/travel pass to enter Mt. Edith Cavell road to the parking area.You can pick up a pass at the visitor center for 4 different time slots during each day. I was lucky and got my pass 2 days ahead of time when I thought they were only giving them out either same day or 1 day in advance. In July, they sent up a canopy outside to handle the distribution.I wanted the 8:30am pass and it WELL worth it and you are the first to the trails. When we finished around the noon the second wave was arriving and the trails were getting busier but not anything like Lake Louise or the other sites.Tremendous sites ... glaciers, mountains, wild flowers, etc ... see photos"
Definitely worth the trip and the wait to get the permit. The colour of the pond is amazing with icebergs in it.
The number of people in the area is limited by the park service so it's a fantastic place to go out and enjoy some spectacular scenery without being swarmed by people. Beautiful views are literally a few footsteps from the parking lot and a little bit of hiking will get to jaw-dropping scenery. 100% worth it!
I prefer to see nature without hordes of other people. This year the Edith Cavell area was restricted to 180 vehicles staggered during the day. That made it the best thing we did in Jasper. The hike up to the glacier pool was beautiful with a few benches along flower studded rivers and then there was space to sit and just be in awe of the glacier and the pool below. Make time for the hike above because the views are spectacular. Wonderful.
"The Edith Cavell Meadows is a spectacular and incredible scenic hike in Jasper with breathtaking views of landscapes including beautiful flowery meadows, glaciers and mountains. In 2017, the hike requires a permit as they are doing constructions on the road leading to the trailhead and only allow a limited number of cars in per day. You can pick up a permit for one of four times each day (8:30 am, 11 am, 2 pm and 4 pm) between 8 and 10 am at the Parks Canada Information Centre in town. I lined up at 7 am on the day before I wanted to do the hike and was able to get a permit for my preferred time of 8:30 am the following day. I suggest lining up early as the line got quite long and not everyone got the time they wanted. The trail starts off gently climbing a partially paved path along the Path of the Glacier. It leads to a viewing area overlooking the Angel Glacier and Cavell Pond, where the views are amazing and you feel so close to the scenery. But the views just keep getting better along the rest of the trail! The trail then continues to climb uphill as it passes over the rocky moraine and then enters the subalpine forest before opening up to the beautiful meadows with colourful wildflowers above the treeline. There are stunning views of the glacier and mountains throughout the hike. The mosquitoes were relentless and aggressive along most of the hike and whenever I stopped to take a photo or admire the views or rest my legs, they attacked me almost immediately, which was really unfortunate. I didn't bring insect repellent but it would have been a good idea. I saw lots of hoary marmots along the hike as well, which were super cute. Before you reach the main lookout at the end of the trail, there is a junction with two options - an easier and a more difficult route. I took the easier climb as the difficult one looked much steeper and was pleased with that choice. I ended up taking the difficult path on the way down instead. I heard three avalanches along the way to the top which was a pretty unforgettable experience. I finally reached the main lookout on the trail and was in complete awe at how gorgeous the surrounding scenery was. I felt so close to the mountains and the Angel Glacier. The views were breathtaking! There is another optional trail to climb a very steep trail even higher up the mountain, but I chose not to do that. The hike was consistently and steadily uphill from start to finish, with some steeper sections and some gentler ones along switchbacks, but it was totally manageable for someone of good fitness. I did it, and I am from the flat Prairies where I never hike elevations like this. I recommend going slow and taking lots of breaks if you're getting tired and use hiking poles. They helped a lot, especially with going downhill. Also, bring lots of water and snacks as there is nowhere nearby to purchase anything. The temperatures get much colder and windier at the top of the trail, so wear warm layers as well. In total, this round trip hike took me 3.5 hours to complete including all of my many stops along the way. If you are looking for a fantastic and incredibly rewarding day hike in Jasper (it takes about 40 minutes to get from town to the trailhead parking lot) with stunning natural beauty, I HIGHLY HIGHLY recommend this one. It was the best hike I have ever done so far and I feel like very few hikes will compare to this one."
"I am so glad we did not miss walking this trail up to the meadows: the glacier close up, the bright blue lake, pine trees, meadows and stunning views. Reading all the reviews and advice about the permits before made me anxious that we wouldn't get one but it worked out fine. We arrived at the visitor centre in town at 7.45 to queue for about half an hour. We got a pass for following morning at 8.30am without a problem (they still had a few for later that day). I would recommend an early hike if you can as the sun was on the glacier, the trail was quieter and it wasn't too hot. We took a packed lunch to eat at the end - there's no cafe or place to fill your water bottle so go prepared."
Absolutely gorgeous place. Huge glacier hanging over the lake. Did the hike up to the meadows very steep climb but worth it for the view. You need to get a parking permit at the visitors center or they will not let you down the road
"You must have a permit (one of only 180) per day. They also break them up into 4 time groups. 8,11,2 and 4. You need to meet in Jasper Town at the information center. Depending on season time changes. During the Busy season, they were open 2 hours in morning. 8-10 AM. Arrived 7:20 AM was about 30 deep. They were offing permits for either the day we were in line or the next day. By the time it was our turn all the 8 and 11 AM were gone. Most likely some the day prior. 2 PM was great for us. Well worth the effort. The drive is easy and has good views going up. The parking area has restrooms. The walk is steep however there are a lot of benches. The path is paved most of the way and narrows in a few spots. The Landing site area is large. Take your time and see the sites. After the Glacier, if you are up to it take the trail into the woods. This path is small gravel and stepping over uneven rocks. Depending on your time and level it can be enjoyable. Come for nothing more than the Angel Glacier, Falls and lake view."
"So you wait in line for over an hour to get a pass to enter because Parks Canada decides to do construction during Canada 150. Why do they think that was even a smart idea? No forward thinking to complete the work BEFORE!So if you plan to go, suggest getting a pass days in advance. There is no way to book online so you are stuck with standing in a long line."
"Queued early (pre 8am) at the Jasper Visitor Centre to get one of 180 daily passes to the Edith Carvell Mountain / Glacier. Restrictions due to new works required after a slab of the glacier collapsed into its pond below creating a massive, local tidal wave which swept roads and trails away along with some of the hillside. Still a stunning view and teminder of nature's awesome power and beauty. Another 'must do.'"
"After a long journey climbing a mountain to get to the access point, we arrived at Edith Cavell and witnessed why it is such a popular site. The contrast of water, glacier, mountain and forest was heavenly, and I was told you can hear the glacier crackling itself. Note when we went there in early July, that the second half of the main path was closed off due to an aggressive bear, so keep that in mind. We did not encounter any of them on our trek there, however. It is about a 15-20 minute walk of moderate incline from the parking lot to the site where we took pictures of the glacier. Definitely beautiful and worth the extra drive. Note it is about a 30 minute drive from the highway.Note that during the 2017 season, the parks are working on expanding the parking lot so there is limited access to the site and you will require a permit from the Jasper information center in town (they hand them out first thing in the morning between 8-10am situated in a table outside). You can select one of four times and there is a timeframe you can use the permits for. When we went there, despite being a busy weekend, we managed to get one for a few days later (lots of availability). Same-day permits were obviously taken quicker, but there was still one time left towards the end of the two hour window, to give you a reference point.Please kindly indicate if you found this review to be helpful as it will allow me to better focus my future efforts! Much appreciated - hope you have a great time and safe travels!"
"Mt Edith Cavell is a popular spot and access is controlled. You need to pick up a free access permit at the Jasper Visitors' Centre. In summer 2017, there were 4 access times: 8:30 am, 11 am, 2 pm and 4 pm. We went the day before and were told to come back at 8 am on the day of travel. We were there at 7:30 only to discover that the 8:30 am and 11 am spots had been distributed the day before. Our time was 2 pm. - not the greatest time of day for an uphill climb. We got the the bottom of the last switchbacks and reading the map posted, it looked like it was well over a kilometre to reach the meadows. Actually they start at the top of the last switchbacks. While the Angel Glacier and pond below are interesting, this hike does not warrant the effort unless you are into wildflowers and plan to reach the meadows. If you are a slow walker or it is very hot, the 2 pm slot is not good as the trail is in full sun. The sun moves off the trail by 4 pm in July. They lock the gates at 8 pm so this really does not give you much time to explore the meadows. However, there is a viewpoint for the glacier and pond lower down. If this is all you want to see, you can do this in about an hour."
"This is a must do while in jasper. We got a pass from the Jasper info centre for the day after at 8:30, which is free. Some people cycle up. The drive is apparently really bendy but if you are used to driving on European roads then it is easy. The parking is ample and there are loads of RV spots which weren't even being used. There are also 3 smelly toilets with tons of toilet paper! The view from the car park even makes you look up. The trail isn't far and is worth the steepness."
"We spent a week going through Banff and Jasper and this was by far our favourite excursion. The views were stunning, even the drive was beautiful. A must see."
"My husband and I went to Mt. Edith Cavell with a guide who understood that we were seniors not in the best physical shape -- but she insisted that we attempt the climb to the first level glaciers and promised to help us up by going slowly and breaking when we needed a rest. It was truly taxing for overweight people who live on flat ground at sea level, but I am SO glad we continued up. The view was amazing. The idea that hundreds of years of ice were in front of us was impressive. And what a feeling of accomplishment we had when we got back to the car!"
"We took a guided tour of Mt Edith Cavell. We could have done it ourselves but then we would not have learnt about it, the flora and the fauna. When we went it was raining but that did not deter. The trail is easy, the view spectacular. When visiting Jasper this is a must see"
Given 4 stars on the description of it . We went to see it but unfortunately the road is restricted as there is a very small amount of car parking at the end of the road. Passes have to be obtained from the forest service office in Jasper they are free but go very quickly and available from 8am and only possible to get for 3 days max ahead . We will need better planning next time .
"Easy access and an amazing site, if you like imposing rock faces and huge glaciers. The meadows trails was closed (July 2017) due to a grizzly momma with cub so the one short walk up the viewing point was it. The drive in and out is also beautiful -- as are most drives in the area.NOTE: In summer 2017 you have to go to the info center in downtown Jasper and get a free permit to access this site at a designated time and day (that day up to 3 days ahead.) Go between 8-10am; the line will be long but moves pretty quickly."
"This is a spectacular activity to do in Jasper. There is a short walk on a paved path to the over look to view Angel Glacier, Cavell Glacier, Mt Edith Cavell, and Cavell lake (pond) at the bottom of the two glaciers. When I was here in the past (5-7 years) you used to be able to walk right up to the pond and the Cavell Glacier. That trail is now closed. If you are in good shape you can do the Cavell meadows trail and turn onto the smaller trail that goes along the ridge line to get a better view of Angel Glacier, Cavell Glacier, Mt Edith Cavaell, and Cavell lake (pond). This trail is gravel, and rocky in spots, but the scenery and photo ops are spectacular. This trail is not for people afraid of heights. Kudos to Parks Canada for the pass system that they implemented for this site. There is road construction just below the trailhead so you need to get a pass in advance to access Edith Cavell road. If this pass system is temporary I think Parks Canada should keep this system in place. It makes for a very relaxing and enjoyable visit since the number of cars on the road, in the parking lot, and people on the trails is limited. Again, I have been here before and thought that without the pass system our visit was a bit chaotic(too many cars and too many people all at once). Finally for those who believe that global warming is all a sham I can tell you first hand that these glaciers are much much smaller than the last time ai was here. In another 5-10 years I wouldn't be surprised if Cavell Glacier is gone altogether."
"Although much of the main loop trail was closed due to an aggressuve grizzly bear in the area, it was still worth our effort. Look over trail closures as several were in place but we only knew of one. Be aware of the parking permit needs to enter the road. Easy to obtain at park visitor center. Show up half hour early as line gets longer as 8am ( start time ) approaches."
"Remember to get a permit from the Visitor Centre/Parks Canada office in Jasper (townsite). It is an easy hike up to the Angel Glacier. The views along and at the end of the trail are stunning and awe-inspiring!! (Do not forget to look back for the valley view!) We were there in late June of 2017 and saw glaciers melting and collapsing, making thunderous sound. Mt Edith Cavell is majestic from all angles near and far!!"
"We misunderstood the pass requirements and were unable to get in. To limit the number of visitors per day, you must now get a unique pass for Edith Cavell. The national park pass will not be sufficient. Check with the visitor center in Jasper before heading out."
"Drive from Jasper is only 27km, but due to mountain road, it takes about 1hour to get there. We saw black bear walk on the road. We don't get parking permit. It is not much traffic that day, so the staff let us park on the road close to parking lot. It is very nice of them to do so. Some of trail is closed. Hiking to glacier is easy and enjoyable. To bad we can't go all the way down to glacier."
We could not go to meadow trail because still lot of snow was on the trail but if you hike little further from first view point to climbers route view of the Angel Glacier and pond is awesome.You will need a permit to enter and it is given at the Information Center between 8am to 10am.
"We skipped over the ice fields glacier tour and opted for this hike instead. It was a great choice. However, you'll need to stop at the park office in Jasper to pick up a pass and time slot that you can enter the area. It's free and we were able to visit a few hours later. It takes about 30 minutes to get there from the park office and there are lots of twists in the road - no campers! It's also not a good stop for small children or tourists in flip flops.It's a nice hike and there's some mud and snow if you continue on past the initial stop. It's all very pretty and not crowded. We saw a few small avalanches and really enjoyed it"
Good drive and fairly easy to find/locate. Good Parking and Toilets clean (As always)... Nice views and some short walks.
"Mt Edith Cavell in in the middle of a grouping of mountains and can be seen from several roads, so it is a bit confusing. What is the most interesting is the story of Edith Cavell."
"I enjoyed by 9AM-ish visit here- there weren't very many people there yet. Walked the Path of The Glacier Trail. I would have loved to have gotten quite a bit closer to the glacier chunks in the lake, but for your safety, that's not allowed because if a big enough ice chunk fell, it could displace enough water in the pond to cause a flood and you could get swept away in frigid cold water- it's happened before- at least the glacier chunk falling, displacing the pond, and causing a flood part."
"We wanted to do the whole trail, glaciers and meadows and all, but cut it short due to thunder storm warning. The trail is rocky so it might be easy to twist your ankles when it's wet. The shorter trail to the main outlook was short, but was uphill all the way, so take your time to breathe in between (as if you'd need reminding ;). From the main outlook on the way back, you could take a turn to go onto a longer trail, from which you are offered views of the glaciers from varying viewpoints. I loved sitting on the rocks staring at the glacier across the little yet colorful pond.We will come prepared for spending a whole day here next time."
"Due to road construction, we could not drive all the way in. However, the road up to the area was a beautiful, scenic drive. The curves that others mentioned didn't bother us at all; just a nice two-lane country road. We parked by a lake, and there are trails around here. The lake was a beautiful color, and a tranquil spot."
A nice drive & not hard to find. Walk from the car park is only about 800 metres and although uphill is not strenuous. Not too many people and the scenery is lovely. Can't walk on the glacier but you do get a good view of it & it is definitely worth going to see.
"Mount Edith Cavell is located in Jasper National Park, and this impressive peak is located entirely within Alberta. The parkway is a twisting, turning 14 kilometre route through sub-alpine forests to the slopes of Mt. Edith Cavell. The hairpin turns add to the fun.You can expect to see lots of people here in the summer. There are several hike options beginning with an easy walk to a 5 hr hike to the Cavell Meadows. The trail does start off paved. I didn't do the full hike. Even the views from parking lot just don't get any better than this."
"We took a (roughly) 90min drive from Hinton up to Mount Edith Cavell as it had been recommended to us by a guide on a previous tour. We parked just further down from the main car park where there were 3 toilet cabins located.We noticed the main pathway that went up to the left, and saw it was really busy with lots of people walking. Instead we decided to go right and walked an old glacial riverbed. It was very rocky and uneven but a pretty easy walk.When we reached the glacier we approached it, as were other people who had arrived from the main path, however we later found out that there were warning signs at the top of the main path that said to stay away from the glacier as it posed a danger to life! Obviously as we hadn't observed this we went right to the foot of the glacier to get lots of pics, which although is absolutely awesome, was terrifying also as here you could hear loud, echoey cracking sounds that was one of the most eerie things I've heard! Our son freaked when he saw a small piece of ice drop down as he thought the whole thing was going to come crashing down, so he and I scampered off toward the main path to safety! Later hubby explained that glaciers are moving all the time, hence the cracking noises and little bits falling off now and again.So once up safely on the main path we could really appreciate the view of the mountain face and angel glacier. It's so huge, it was just beautiful! The lake that was below was apparently made when a huge piece of the glacier had broken free one night in 2014 (I think it was 2014??)The trek back down the paved path was fairly easy as it was mostly downhill. We all agreed that it was definitely worth a visit as we'd all really enjoyed it, and of course it's free which is always a bonus :)"
If you want to go close to a glacier with not making much effort you should visit this place. There is a small parking space where you can easily park your car and in 10 minutes you are able to go very close to the glacier. It´s suitable for anyone.
"I became very emotional when visiting this mountain. I grew up in a village only a couple of miles from where Edith Cavell was born but, until I reached Jasper, I had no idea that Canada had named this fantastic mountain after our Norfolk heroine who was shot by the Germans in 1915 for helping British soldiers to escape. As soon as I discovered the existence of the mountain I knew that I had to visit it in order to pay homage to that immensely brave lady.The road to the mountain is 14 kilometres of almost continuous bends until you reach the parking lot. There is then quite a steep, but reasonably paved, path to the viewing point. From here there is a fantastic view of the north face of this unbelievably beautiful mountain, and also of the Angel glacier. At the foot of the glacier is a lake filled with ice floes. Many signs warn of possible flash floods that might occur if part of the glacier should break away and fall into the lake. For me, this was not only emotional, it was also one of the most stunning sights that I saw during my visit to Canada."
It was late in the day when I got there so I did not get a chance to explore the trail to the Meadows. I did take the path to the foot of the Glacier to see the lake up close. Though it was late in the day it was well worth going there and doing the short hike.
"Nice views of the glacier and parts that have fell into the lake below. After visiting many glacier activities along the icefield parkway, I would rate Cavell as average. However the drive from Athabasca falls, makes a visit to this location much more attractive. The views of Mount Edith Cavell are spectacular. There is a short uphill walk to the closest viewing area of the glacier and the lake below.I would say it's best to visit the area in the morning or early afternoon as the evening sun light tends to make the area very dark if going to this location in the early evening."
"This is on trip advisor Several times, but all seem to refer to the same walk/glacier. We walked from the car park to the first viewing area then Further up to ghost glacier viewing point which gave a great view of it all. The glacier and lake is stunning and we found it far more interesting, rewarding and quieter than the Columbia icefield. The walk was uphill but not too challenging and well worth the views. We would have also walked the meadow but there was a bear warning and just two of us. We did see pika and marmots which was a first on our trip."
This is a truly beautiful location. Highly recommended to take the trail to the small lake at the foot of the glaciers. It's a bit more rugged than advertised but it's paved and manageable for most. The views at the end are unbelievable. You will want to take your time to soak it all in.
The Angel Glacier is a must see if you have time when in Jasper. It is a bit of a trek and the roadway is a lot of switchbacks so driving is slow. When you get to the top of the parking lot - its a bit of a hike - but soooo worth it! The glacier has ice chunks that fall off and float around in a small lake at the bottom of the glacier. Lots of mini type icebergs floating around. Beautiful scenic walk!
"The hike is through very arid and bare territory. The glacier on Mt. Edith Cavell is interesting because of its shape, including wings towards either side, thus its name Angel. But not pretty and not an interesting hike."
We would never have bothered to go here but it was so worth it. The views are fabulous and there are easy manageable trails to walk.
"For me, this was the best of a great slate of activities. We did 3/4 (skipped the last, highest leg due to snow) of the upper Cavell Meadows trail. We were the first ones there just before 7:00 am - zero cars parked! For quite a while, it was like we had the whole area to ourselves and it was magical. 3 1/2 hours later, after a LOT of ooohing and ahhhing, we arrived back at the parking area to about 40 or so cars & RV's. It didn't seem like we passed that many people on our way down, so ??? where they went! I suppose the only tip I could provide would be that if you go up past the ""pond"", there's a sweeping/swooping ridge or moraine that goes up the valley from the pond. We ended up hiking up the more established trail (that would be to your left as hiking uphill...) versus clamoring up the spine of the moraine/ridge as we saw several people going up, again, as we were coming down. You do lose sight of the pond for a while (which is why I suppose people scramble up the ridge...), but you quickly get sight of it again for different perspectives and photos from above. By the time you get to the upper reaches of the basin, you're at eye level (or maybe a tad higher?) with the bottom of Angel Glacier which lies across the valley. The brief amount of time hiking through the densely forested area (above the moraine/ridge but below the upper basin) was a little creepy with just the two of us, but we made it without a bear attack - the trail opens back up relatively soon giving you a (false?) sense of security to hike around the upper basin.What a great morning!"
It was a good walk up a fairly steep path to see the mountain & lake but worth it. A rainy day but we were fortunate that it had stopped while we were there
"Face to face with sheer mountain wall, and a short 'meadows' walk to view the 2 glaciers - Ghost and Angel Wings - and the icy lake below full of fallen ice chunks. Quite high, so a fairly strenuous walk, but a really fabulous view."
"The views along the hike kept me going on this moderate hike to a meadow. Multiple animals scurried in amongst the boulders and even paused for us to take their pictures. I saw three mini-avalanches from the glacier as I was hiking. If you like to hike, be sure to enjoy this one."
"Its a 300 meter hike to see Mt Edith and the glacier and well worth it, since it started raining we had to leave but I was told by many people that you can see ice falling off the glacier"
It's a 14 kilometer drive up a narrow winding road through fantastic scenery. At every turn of the road we wanted to stop and get out but the road wasn't wide enough for that. We took the shortest hike and it was lovely and not difficult. Definitely recommended.
"We took a guided tour which picked us up from our hotel in Jasper in a small bus, as a group of about 10. We had a friendly and informative guide who drove us up the steep zigzag road to the start of the hike. This 40 minute journey was an adventure in itself with the continual, near-hairpin bends, on the narrow road with a steep drop on the side and no safety barriers. At the end of the road is a car park with the obligatory National Parks, Long Drop toilet facilities. The trail starts from the car park, it is well laid throughout its length. It starts with a few steps, and then becomes a steep path. Although not too steep, the thin air at this altitude will likely have you short of breath before long. Our guide took this into account with enough brief rests.It's only about a kilometre to the end where there is a flat area from which to admire the glacier and lake. A huge chunk of the glacier detached not long ago and caused a lot of devastation in the area, which is clear to see. As a result, the reminder is likely very unstable so there are warning signs (ignored by some) telling you to go no closer. You get a great view which is well worth the effort. This is not the kind of thing you can see every day. We all throughly enjoyed it and it was one of the highlights of our trip to Canada. Total trip time was about 3 hours."
"We had very good of close-up view of the remaining glacier. We also learned a past avalanche that caused a major flash flood in Aug, 2012. The nature is so powerful!"
"The side road to Mt Edith Cavell is quite a trip in itself, narrow and winding upward to the mountain, but well paved. There are stops along the way to take in the wondrous views,. Once there, the parking lot was full, so we parked along the road with dozens of others. But it was all well worth it to witness the mountain and Angel Glacier, with icy blue Cavell Pond below it, trying to imagine the forces of nature from which it evolved. There are walkways and benches to sit and take in the views. The better views are at the end of the trail, a somewhat challenging hike at that altitude, but again, well worth it. I'm so glad we took the extra time to see this marvelous wonder!"
"The walk to the viewpoint was well worth it, the view was great and the glacier added to the drama together with the lake filled with fallen ice blocks."
One of the must sees in Jasper. We went on a cloudy day and still enjoyed it. The drive up is also really pretty!
"We had 4 kids ages 5-10 with us and this was the perfect day hike. We say marmots, pikas, glaciers, lakes, wildflowers, and mountain views. It wasn't that long length-wise and wasn't that difficult. We all had a great time. Definitely go up to the meadows from the main glacier overlook (a pile of large rocks, where the trail splits and the rock climbers go to the right and the meadows to the left)."
"A steep 14 km ride with many sharp bends takes you to Mt. Edith Cavell but it is worth it. From the parking lot there is a moderately difficult climb up to the close-up view of the glacier. Do NOT leave the trail and go down as the posted warnings say due to a past avalanche that caused a major flash flood in Aug, 2012. Plan at least 2 hours for this place. The most amazing thing I should mention is that there was this brave man in a wheelchair who pulled his chair up the slope to our amazement (picture uploaded). Bravo to him! He made our day."
"Catch road up to the mountain just south of Jasper. Road has a few hair pin turns and was recently paved. Excellent views on the way up. Washrooms and parking near mountain. Hike to Angel glacier is easy and short from parking lot. The road to the local Marmot ski hill is off of this road. Saw a black bear on this road. This road had a few very large bumps in the road which were clearly marked. There is a hike on this road that is not marked and will take you to the ""Edge of the World"" which provides you with an amazing view of Jasper on top of a cliff. You will need to ask a local resident where this trail can be found since it not advertised."
"This is a twisty road thru the forest. We stopped at one point and far down in the valley we could hear water of a rushing river. The wind was whispering thru the evergreen trees and fragrance of evergreen with wild roses was intoxicating. Not one human noise... no cars, planes, trains, etc. Rare peaceful spot in this busy world."
Watching Angle glacier and down into the glacier lake with broken glacier pices in the grenn blue amazing water
I was sadden when we got to Mt. Edith Cavell to learn that part of one of the glaciers had broken off and cause a flash flood. There has been a lot of damage to the lower part of this attraction. You can no longer walk over to the lake or walk along the bottom . However it is still a beautiful place to see. The walk over to the attraction is not very far. Easy for kids and older folks.
If you are in Jasper area you could miss anything but not this hike. At least do the trail of Glacier hike. It gives you view of the base of the Glacier and the pond. You could see ice melting into water and becoming a water fall.
We had a great time hiking the meadow summit. With younger kids we spent ~6 hrs to make the round trip. The scenery changes as you hike from wild flower covered to alpine terrain. On the top of the summit you have an unobstructed 360 degree view of the mountains!
Saw this beautiful and spectacular mountain from the Icefields Pathway only as I was on a tour. I couldn't believe that it had so much snow/ice still on it and it was summer! If I ever come back - knowing how close it is to Jasper and that the walk is pretty good I would go here.
"We were almost put off of taking this trail because of the rangers' warning of grizzly bears on the trails. We put on our bells, and took our bear spray, and made sure we were making noise- as there were just two of us vs the recommended 4 in a close knit group. I'm very glad we did decide to hike this trail. It is beautiful every step of the way- from the views of the Angel Glacier at the beginning, the wild flower meadows and rolling tundra in the middle, and then the 2nd side trip (going counter-clockwise, which I'd recommend) on the trail. I won't say this is an easy trail- especial the trek up to the very top of the 2nd side trip but worth all the effort. The lookout from the 2nd side trip gives one true 360 degree views of all the mountains in the area. The last leg is steeper down than the ascent was on the rightmost leg (which is why it is better to go up the right leg and then go down the left leg of the loop. but there are pretty scenes, and again lots of wildflowers before you go down to the glacier overlook split off again. The trail down the Angel Glacier lake is closed due to concerns about calving of glacier pieces that could cause a flash flood/water rising. But the lookout over the Glacier and lake is still available and puts you close enough for great pictures. Would highly recommend this trail if you are in decent shape, and like a variety of views and some rewarding challenge(2nd side trip- which you can opt not to do if you don't want to take the trail up, up up). We are fairly fit 65 yr ols, and managed it fine. Take enough water though! We saw folks on this trail without water, and that is not wise."
"The hike in the area is so pretty! You need a nice day to truly enjoy the experience. We had a bit of light misty rain, but were dressed for it, so that didn't slow us down. Another must see when in Jasper!"
"What a great spot. You have to walk at least one of the trails to get a good view, but it's a fairly easy and mostly paved trail. You can see the glacier and the lake from the end of the lower trail. If you're lucky like we were you'll hear part of the glacier break off and fall below sounds like thunder through the valley, hopefully not too big of a piece.You have the option to keep hiking up the meadows trail, but this was difficult and the views really weren't that much better than from the lower platform area. Enjoy! Do note the other reviews about parking...there is a lot when you get to the end of the road make a firm left and keep going it's there. Won't seem like it, but it is!"
"It's not a long walk, but most of it is uphill to see Mt. Edith Cavell and Angel Glacier. Take your time and enjoy the views along the way and also when you get to the top of the trail. Beautiful!"
"Jasper has many attractions but Mt Edith Cavell should be your priority to see before you leave. Why! because !! A great easy drive up in the mountains, close to Jasper 35 minutes, beautiful stunning scenery, large car park, easy walk to view the magnificent Mt Edith Cavell and the glacier and the glacier lake.Listen for glacier calving sounds like thunder view the Chipmunks & Marmots darting around the rocks. Go for a extended hike to the meadows approx 1.5 hour with breathtaking views and scenery.This place will blow your mind! Take water & food and if your going for a hike to the meadows please take appropriate gear, hat and sunscreen. AND CAMERA."
"This is a little bit off the beaten track but defiantly worth the effort in getting there. The road up is very twisty and it's about 14 km from the main road. At the end of the road you will see cars parked down the edges of the road. There is a large car park if you carry on past these cars and you should be able to park, there is also a jasper loan drop toilet here! The walk is about 1.4 km but is on a path and is quiet easy for most people. The angel glacier and the lake are spectacular and the area has a great feeling to it with the towering north face of the mountain in front of you with the melting creaking glacier above. You can walk down to the emerald coloured lake below which has large pieces of the glacier floating in it. Bring a picnic and spend some time it's lovely here!"
"This is an absolute must and I am surprised how underrated it is. When people talk about things to do in Jasper you very rarely hear about Mr. Edith Cavell. yet, this is by far the best thing you will see in jasper let along the entire Canadian Rockies. We went to Banff, Jasper, Lake Louise and Yoho and this was the highlight of the trip. A 15 minute twisty drive up the mountain plus another 15 minute hike to the the face of the mountain gets you right under the Angel Glacier with a waterfall coming off the glacier into a pool of water filled with small icebergs. It is a surreal site to say the least and not one I could have ever envisioned until seeing it. It is one of those sights that you just shake you head at and remain in awe about what nature is capable of creating. This is a must do when in Jasper. Stop reading and just go do it."
"So glad we were sidetracked with a trip up to Mt Cavell, south of Jasper. The drive is narrow and twisty, but good road. No RV's. Beautiful wildflowers lined the roadsides. We went early in the morning and had easy parking. The walking trail to the glacier viewpoint is paved, but can be somewhat steep. A beautiful walk, maybe 10 minutes to the top, where you have a bird's eye view of the mountain, lake and glacier. Wonderful photo opportunities. By the time we made it back to the parking lot it was packed with cars waiting. Very glad we had the opportunity to enjoy this nice side trip."
"We visited Edith Cavell the day after our trip through the Icefields Parkway.Edith Cavell meadows is a great little hiking trail, especially if you visit before it gets too busy ( typically before 9:30 in peak season).The road leading to the trail is very winding around the mountains, and does not allow for trailers or large buses. It is not a difficult road during the summer, just one where you should take care and heed the speed restrictions.The first part of the walk takes you uphill to a pool that is fed from the Angel Glacier that you can see perched at the top of the mountain.......in 2012 a piece of glacier fell off and into the pool, this created a wave that wiped out the car park. For the second part of the walk you retrace your steps for a short distance and then take a well marked path over a moraine of rocks. The path then climbs gradually into the woods, you will see Richardson squirrels (gophers) and Marmots ( Grizzly Bear food) who live in the rocks, you will hear lots of birds and once through the woods the meadows of flowers open up. You also get an even better view of the Glacier and Pool down below.The view of the Glacier and pool is fantastic and I felt even closer than on the Icefields.....probably because there was time to enjoy it on our own, rather than surrounded by lots of people.This walk is not too strenuous, I would say one of medium difficulty, requiring an average level of fitness as there are some uphill climbs."
The glacier at Mt Edith Cavell is absolutely worth the trip. Although one is not able to wake on the glacier it self it is impressive to see what destruction the last melting and the subsequent flood has done to the valley.
"We didn't plan this hike originally, but it was so amazing! Nice lake at the foot of the gorgeous mountain, small icebergs and glacier shaped like angel wings. Breathtaking!"
"We arrived at noon; although we were not literally at the foot of the mountain, we were close enough to be dwarfed by it. What we saw was epic. A bubbling waterfall emerged from one side of a massive glacial ridge, gained momentum and mass, and then catapulted down into an azure pond partially embellished with ice floes. It was astounding; it was mesmerizing. And near the peak, we saw another amazing feature: a hefty, swooped-back angel-winged glacier formation that the Jasper National Park brochures had rightly touted. We marveled at Mt. Edith Cavell"
We went in the early evening and saw a black bear on the way. It's a beautiful drive not far from Jasper. There is a parking lot (that wasn't full when we were there) and the trail takes off from there. It's not hard - two not-so-in-shape 60+ year olds made it just fine. The views are spectacular. You have to go to the viewpoint to see the full angel glacier. One of my favorite spots on the trip!
"This hike is billed as having a great overlook, but the view is of the face of Mt. Edith Cavell, and Angel Glacier, which hangs off the mountain. Many people hiked down into the flood plain to see the glacier and the glacial pond at it's base, despite warnings and requests from the Park service to stay on the established path. Plaques at the end of the trail point out how much the glacier has receded in the last 40 years."
"30 minutes south of Jasper's northern entrance, turn onto the winding, steeply ascending 9 mile-long road that takes you to Mount Edith Cavell, named for a British nurse infamously executed in World War I for helping Allied soldiers escape from German-occupied Belgium. There's a modestly ascending, mostly paved trail at the end of the drive, but with sometimes spectacular viewpoints along the way, you can enjoy much of the alpine beauty without having to hoof it uphill. If you do choose to hike the loop trail, you'll be treated to unforgettable landscapes of enormous mountains all around you, the wondrous hanging ""Angel Glacier"" with its waterfall and meltwater lake backed by glacial ice, and vistas that allure in any weather. We began our trip in rain, with mist and fog obscuring some views, but as we ascended found the sunshine and blue skies, so don't give up if weather conditions at the bottom aren't ideal. You may find something unexpectedly bright and splendid as you near the top. On most summer days, you certainly will find a crush of people, but they tend to spread out and collect in small groups here and there along the trail. So you can find moments of peace for awe-filled contemplation if you are patient. Helpfully, there are interpretive signs posted along the trail so that you can begin to understand the nature, wildlife and geology in this special place.The road and trail leading to Mt. Edith Cavell are not to be missed. If you have doubts, just click to view the pictures I've attached. This is one of the most beautiful places among the many great landscapes you will find in Jasper National Park."
"The views here are absolutely gorgeous! The crowds however are atrocious because of the ease of access. We did the meadows hike and really enjoyed it but the highlight is Angel Glacier, Cavell Glacier, Cavell Pond and Mt Edith itself.There are clearly labeled signs that say to not hike off trail to the pond, it is a very dangerous place to be underneath Angel Glacier and you should absolutely heed those warnings, we saw many many many people ignore the signs and head down to the pond, this is not only extremely stupid but also illegal. Don't be a bonehead, follow all signs and rules, your life could depend on it and that's no joke. I do believe Parks Canada needs to have a Ranger stationed at the overlook to make sure people do not venture down to the pond."
Stunning mountain that defines the Jasper area for me and so is my #1 thing to do in Jasper in the summer. The path along the moraine to the base of the glacier is accessible for most and should not be missed.
"A great and easily navigated trail takes you up the side of the mountain. To the right is a gorgeous melting glacier which my younger and braver family members climbed all over. If you go high enough, you can reach snow and slide down a snowy mountainside in the summer. So fun! Oh, and the mountain meadow halfway to the top is filled with beautiful natural flowers."
"It all starts with the jaw dropping entrance into the parking lot. And then you look up...and up. Just a short walk and you come across an area that all you do is smile and get the camera and take pics and video, For a nice and a bit vigorous of a hike you can go to one or 2 lookout vistas which are amazing. Love this place."
"For me this is the most beautiful place in Jasper NP (Icefield Parkway not included). You have to climb to have a view of the glacier, but that's definitely worth it!! I advise to arrive here before 10AM in so the summer because of the crowds."
"Even though it was a rainy day and we didn't manage to finish the entire Cavell Meadows Trail, we made it to the second lookout and it was stunning. The trail is moderately steep, but climbs steadily with amazing lookouts along the way, offering stunning views of Cavell Pond, Mt. Edith and its glacier, as well as meadows covered with colourful wildflowers. Not the easiest of hikes, but definitely worth it."
"We visited late in the day, so there were many people here. It seemed like a quiet, out-of-the-way hike that was scenic and historical. Bit of a climb in elevation during the hike, so plan on taking a few stops on the way up to catch your breath."
The car park is reached by a 3k journey up a twisting road. We got there at 10.00am and there was space although we did park on the roadside. Short walk to a viewing area of the Angel Glacier and the lake beneath which has icebergs floating in it. Much more enjoyable was the walk up to the meadows beyond. A long climb on well signposted paths but fairly uneven underfoot. You climb through the tree line finishing on bare hillside with shale underfoot. Took over 3 hours. Although you were never entirely alone it was not crowded so you were able to enjoy the beautiful scenery and solitude. A wonderful opportunity to experience the Rockies in all their majesty
"Mount Edith Cavell and its Angel Glacier is my very favorite place to unwind, while in the Rockies. I love this area! The road leading to it is super fun to drive with its hairpin turns. Once at the Cavell parking lot, it is a short hike up a rocky trail to view the majestic mountain and its serene Angel Glacier. A few years ago, the Ghost Glacier to the left of Mount Edith colapsed, releasing thundering noise, heard even down in Jasper village. It caused an instant flood of the Cavell Meadows and washed away the picnic area, leaving massive blocks of glacial ice in its wake. The area was closed off to the public for an entire year. We happened to go there the year before the collapse, then the year after and again this year. The area is recovering well thanks to the great efforts of Parks Canada personnel and nature itself. Don't miss going up to see this magnificent area. Angel Glacier is truly a delightful sight."
Very short uphill hike to see a glacier up close and lake with ice. We traveled all over Banff and Jasper and the mosquitoes were SO bad here bring your head net and spray. Few family's of Grizzles in the area an anything after the short trail you will need to be in a group of 4
"Windy road leads to small car park at the top. We headed up track toward the foot of the clacier, but storm blew in so we eventually turned back - however we did see a marmot on the rocks by the track."
"Angel Glacier & Mt. Edith Cavel glacier were both fantastic. A pretty easy hike up to the lookout spot, and great views. You can do a bit of ""off roading"" down to the glacier for a better view."
"This is magnificent. The view from the parking lot is beautiful, but the view from the observation point is even better. It is a rather strenuous walk to get there as the path is rather steep and you are about 6000 feet or so above sea level. However if you are in reasonable health and take your time the hike up is worth the effort."
"The short trail from the parking area at the end of the freshly paved road is only 1 km partially on asphalt. The views are stunning, and you can see the lower basin lake from there, as well as view points along the road. While we were there a very small chunk of glacier broke off and it sounded like thunder and made a big splash near the top. No danger from the viewing area."
"We got to the parking lot at 9:00 p.m. And there was 1 car there. We got to enjoy this beautiful spot all to ourselves as we met the only other visitor within the first 300 meters of our brief hike. One thing to note is that there was a rock slide a few years ago that wiped out the lower trail so while one of our guidebooks said to take the lower part of the trail for less elevation change, that trail is no longer an option. It's not a very challenging walk/hike but we were not anticipating much more than an evening stroll so we would have brought better shoes had we known that we had a bit more strenuous of a walk. All that aside it's really not overly challenging to get here and well worth a visit. The drive up is also very picturesque. If you can make it work, I definitely recommend a later evening visit."
"If you are a hiker, this area will be something you do not want to miss. Even if you are not a avid hiker, you have the opportunity to walk along a trail and get very spectacular view of Angel glacier and the area. If you are fit and want to do a hike, plan a day here!"
Too bad the visitors to this area do not adhere to the signs to keep on the path and not to proceed to the lake at the bottom of the Glacier. Love the view and the falling snow when we were there.
On the quiet mountain road up to the trail we saw a black bear - by wonderful chance he came very close to the car - so close I could have reached out to touch him. It was wonderful. So the hike to see the Angel Glacier was probably enhanced by the afterglow of such good fortune. But it is very special itself with the ‘wings’ of the glacier stretching from Mt Sorrow to Mt Edith Cavell. Although it was a fine day when we started off by the time we were returning from the glacier it was snowing. Returning down the Tonquin valley road we saw a brown bear and another black bear (further away and photos not so good). An exceptional day.
"We just went to the glacier and did not do the meadows. Very nice and interesting as are all the sites in the Canadian Rockies. It probably wouldn't be on the top of my list. We went as we were leaving Jasper and took 93A to Mt. Edith Cavell then continued to Athabasca Falls. From there we went to the Icefields and then ended in Lake Louise. A long day, but very interesting."
"Allow a couple of hours to enjoy this lovely place, its an easy walk to the fifth bridge, mostly downhill, when you get to the fifth bridge you will see a trail signposted for horses going sharply right, take this trail if you would like an easier walk back to base.A really pleasant experience. (you might even see a bear)."
Spent our first day in Jasper National park at Mt Edith Cavell where the walk from the car park takes you first up to the angel glacier then onto the frozen lake at the bottom of the glacier and then onto the meadow beyond. The site and atmosphere all around is breathtaking with the glacier in the shape of a hanging angel your first destination. But don't stop there go on and see the frozen lake that the angel is slowly filling as she regresses back up the mountain. The meadow beyond was closed due to weather conditions not being favourable however from everyone we have spoken to its just as fantastic - breath in the fantastic crisp fresh air
"This trail is a very short trail to see Mt Edith Cavell and nearby glacier. As far as hikes go, there is incline which in my opinion makes it not ""easy"" but it is short and gives you a great view of the mountain, glacier, nearby woods and lake."
"This is a great place and the Angel Glacier at the top of the road is easy to see and its really cool. they also have various levels of hiking starting at the parking lot and if your up too it, you can keep going until you reach a cliff a long way down, that is pretty far though and be prepared for all types of weather, even in the summer months. The meadows and the flowers are awesome for photographers and Its just an amazing road to drive as well, lots of switchback turns and such, just beware of slow drivers and Campers, which are not allowed on the road People. Try and get your park pass on-line or something as it is way cheaper and people usually sell them if they are not coming back. But it is great to go up Cavell Road. Also I do believe it just opened up last week, so always check Parks Canada website just to be sure, you dont want to come in April and think you are going to drive up it because it will be walking or biking. I always tend to see the odd Grizzly as well when Im up there, usually just keep your eyes peeled into the trees, they have alot of Brown Bears around Mount Edith Cavell...Enjoy, it will be everlasting and if you haven't been up there, many many more trips up you will have!!"
"This hike will make you work for the view, but it's worth it. A short walk from the parking lot exists for those not looking for a ""hike"" but it still has some incline. The real reward comes from heading up the meadows hike, which typically doesn't open until mid-June because of snow cover. Please stick to the trail as it is a popular hike and the alpine meadows are sensitive to traffic. Bear spray is also a must as the meadows often have visiting grizzlies."
"Whenever we vist Jasper we take the road up to Edith Cavell, that is if it is open. The road is narrow, rough and twisty but worth it. Once you get to the end of the road there is a large and often crowded parking lot with toilet facilities.From there you have two hiking options. The shortest and easiest is the lower trail along the creek to the base of the Angel Glacier. Some years there are fascinating ice caves.The second option is the upper trail which leads to an alpine meadow and gives a different view of the Angel Glacier.A trip to Edith Cavell is well worth it and can be combined with a trip to the Athabasca Falls. If you decide to see both on the same day, use the old highway 93A between the two. It is much quieter than the main highway 93."
"Once the road is open up to Mt. Edith Cavell it is well worth the drive up there. Stunning vista, meadows and the majestic mountain to while away a truly magnificent day; you will not be disappointed just make sure you pick a good weather forecast.Path that goes around the base of the mountain is accessible to most. Enjoy"
"Mount Edith Cavell is a world of hanging glaciers and alpine meadows and lakes.It is a steep winding drive 14km drive off the 93A filled with natures surprises and excitement at every turn.Mountains, snow, hanging glaciers, crystal clear/ blue and green lakes ,rivers, gorges, such amazing scenery not to mention being up close and personal with grizzly bears 3 times!!!It is a east 15min walk from the carpark to stand above the glacier and gaze upon the mighty North Face.This was truly our highlight of our Canadian holiday."
"This was one of the best experience of my Jasper visit. I took the Patch of the Glacier Trail, which leads you to the north face of the peak. There is small lake in between you and the peak and there are glaciers as well. We could hear the glacier cracking and saw the snow fall down to the like like micro avalanches. Not sure if there is a regular event. The sound of ice cracking is bit scary and you tend to look around to see if its behind you. Good thing its all in front of you and rather far as well. The drive to the trailhead is just awesome and you get a great view of the valley below."
We were right in front of the Angel Glacier. There was a trail leading to the pond at the foot of the glacier but it was closed due to safety issue.
There were many informative plaques here as oppose to other spots within Jasper so that was appreciated. I also was happy to find out that this mountain was named after a nurse.
"I climbed up here in the darkness at 4am to catch the sunrise, there was ice everywhere, it was snowing and I had absolutely no idea where I was going- supposedly bears so there was certainly enough mystery and danger involved to keep me interested!It was absolutely beautiful up there and I got some amazing photographs, I am happy I went when I did because on the way back down at 8am it was apparent that this is a bit of a tourist trap, the herds of camera toting tourists and tour groups starting to come out in force.Unfortunately the weather and cloud cover on the morning I went up there didn't allow for the sunrise I went up there anticipating, I'll definitely have to head back there on a mission of 'Unfinished Business'.The Hanging Glacier is really quite something to behold and makes for some impressive photographs!"
The longest of the hikes was closed when we attended at the end of June 2015. The view of the Edith Cavell and other glaciers were different. Recommend to arrive early as the car park fills very quickly and the trails get popular. It is a steady walk up to the viewing platform but well worth it.
We used to love to walk to the glacier and out on to the ice. We were so sorry when it all came crashing down. Now we have to walk up to the meadows and just look down!
Stop at Cavell Lake on the drive up and you will be impressed with the turquoise water and spectacular views. Take a short walk down the trail to the bridge for amazing scenery. Then continue to the end of the trail and hike the trail to the glacier.
Great place to hike and back country camp. You can easily make it a 2-7 day trip. I would recommend it to any level of hiker.
"After hiking and visiting the Canadian Rockies (Banff, Yoho, Kootenay and Jasper) for a week, this was one of the most impressive views I saw my entire visit. The road to Edith Cavell and Angel Glacier (Mt. Edith Cavell Road) is only open seasonally and closes after the first heavy snowfall. Sometimes the road closes in September, and sometimes it is still open in October; we were fortunate in that it was still open on 17 October. As there have been bear sighted either on or near the Cavell Meadows Trail (the Cavell Meadows Trail splits off from the main paved viewing area for the mountain and glacier), it was recommended that hikers travel in groups of four and carry bear spray. We had neither, but were able to find other hikers doing the trail and tagged along. We only went half way up Cavell Meadows Trail because, frankly, the views were stunning from that point and we didn't feel it was necessary to go any further; there is a small clearing from which you can take in the scenery. If you're in decent shape, you shouldn't have any problems with the incline or surface (at least to the half way point, but as we didn't complete the trail I can't comment on the remaining portion of the trail). If you have any issues with your knees, I would highly recommend hiking poles."
One of the best places to see in the Canadian Rockies. The drive from Jasper to the parking lot where you start hiking is great. Take your time and stop your car to admire the surroundings. The hike is great and rewarding.
"While cycling up mount Edith Cavell May 2007, about half way up the 9 miles to the youth hostel (was deserted-opens in June) I saw a wolf in the corner of my eye standing in a rocky outcrop looking down at me 30 feet away. I climbed up the rocks and could see the wolves under the branches 50 feet away looking back at me. When I arrived at the youth hostel I locked the bike and sat next to some sort of ground weather vane and ate sandwiches. Just as I was about to get up a wolf growled from nearby trees. I unlocked the bike and slowly rode away. I wonder if the hostel staff found the garbage can and my sandwich wrapper on the floor"
"It was a beautiful mountain view of the Glaciers. Once we got there, we had no clue what to expect. We hiked up just a little bit...thought it's pretty. Not until I continued to climb the hill and reached the top area that it exceeded my expectations. I'm so glad I continued. The history behind this Glacier was so interesting. This wasn't on our list, but someone mentioned to us to do it...a must see. 2012 part of the Glacier broke apart causing an avalanche and it caused a flash flood. I'll attach the history in case you might like to review for yourself."
"We viewed Mount Cavell from the main highway between Jasper and Banff and whilst a pleasant view alongside other named mountains ,did not stand out as extra special. However the information about Edith Cavell was very good. Real hikers and mountaineers may well have a different perspective on the mountain."
The glacier on the mountain was spectacular with an ice pond at the base. You could see small avalanches coming off the side of the mountain followed by a huge thunderous sound. An interesting narrative by our driver Alicia (Sun Dog travel) who told us the history of the glacial area and how it became called Edith Cavell.
"We thought this walk would be interesting but it exceeded all expectations and was amazing.The tour starts with driving up to Edith Cavell Mountain car park. Along the way Mike gave very interesting background information about the area. When we arrived at the carpark Mike ensured we all had warm gloves, beenie and walking pole for our walk up to view the glacier. Adding to the experience was light snow falling that created a magical experience."
A delightful exhilarating hike and stunning views of two glaciers. I got there by accident and what a find. Don't miss it.
"During our visit to Jasper National Park, one of the last things that we did was to visit Angel Glacier and Mount Edith Cavell. It was a wonderful day for hiking and the views were spectacular. The weather was just a bit on the cool side, even in July, but that worked out great as we worked up a sweat hiking around the area. Out of our several hikes in the Canadian Rockies, this was definitely in our top three!"
"My oldest son, husband and I came to Mt. Edith Cavell early one morning to do the more challenging meadow hike. It is a short drive from downtown Jasper, and on the way up the winding, uphill road, one female elk walked across the road in front of our car and we saw the male standing on top of the hill above the car. When we got to the parking lot around 9 am, there were only one or two other cars there. We started the hike, which is level for a short ways on its way to the lower view of Angel Glacier. If you are doing the more challenging meadow hike, you start climbing at this point thru foresty areas...after hiking for awhile you come out to more open areas where there are more boulders, alpine flowers, etc....this is the meadow area. We were expecting a large open area of meadow at the top, but it's not that at all. If you want, you can take the more difficult hikes up to the top where you can see Angel Glacier from a higher vantage point. The hikes are fairly steep and gravelly...also, you'll do a hike and come to a marker thinking you're at the top, then you look up and see another marker higher up, so you'll do this two or three times before you actually get to the top. It was extremely windy when we reached the top, and it had started raining so it was difficult to get good photos, but at least we can say we reached the top. The way down is easy, but if it has rained, it will be slick so be sure to wear sticky soled shoes. Also dress in layers and plan on needing raingear at some point. We didn't see any bears, thankfully, but bring bear spray in case you do."
"You can take a short, easy hike to see the hanging Angle Glacier or take a longer hike for a closer view of several glaciers and the glacier lake of Angle Glacier. It is truly an educational hike with many signs describing what you are viewing and experiencing. For example, we heard what sounded like thunder but we read that is how it sounds when the ice breaks from the glacier and falls down into the lake. The lake is facinating in that it has ice floating in it and one side of the lake has a wall of blue ice as much as 70km high. Glad we did not miss this one!"
"The drive (just off the Icefields Parkway) is another beautiful stop. The short drive off the major highway can be a little scary with the narrow road, but it is a worthwhile stop.Nice photo opportunity. You stop at the base of a mountain with a small lake in front. There is walking paths that you can take if you desire. Bring a jacket since it is not uncommon to see snow at this higher elevation. It snowed along our drive up."
"Wonderful experience, short walk and still get great views of the hanging glacier. Can walk much further with guided walks available from Jasper"
Mt. Edith Cavell is very impressive. It is worth taking the time to walk to the Angel Glacier. The scenery is fantastic.
The short hike to the Glaciers is easy and well worth it but......the hike up to Carvell Meadows is much better. When you hike up you are eye to eye with tAngel Glacier. We sat on the mountain and watched the glacier calve several times. You can continue up to a ridge far above the glacier - we didn't do this on this trip but will next time. The hike up is not for the physically challenged. You walk over rocks and have to sidestep tree roots - it's very steep but this hike was the most scenic of any we took in Canada on this trip. We tried to visit the glacier in the summer of 2012 but the avalanche from Ghost glacier had just occurred so it was not open. We are so glad to have experienced the glacier and mountain this year.
Come early to later afternoon to find a parking spot for this popular hike to see glaciers up close. Definitely worth the energy to hike to the viewpoint.
"My husband and I, with 51 other seniors were touring the Canadian Rockies with Brewster Tours. Mike McCormack was our driver and tour guide. Gee, does he know his stuff! You have got to book a tour with him and you will definitely get your monies worth and then some. He is quite educated in forestry, environment, etc. etc. I don't remember the educational background but he is so knowledgeable and presents his information with true excitement. We toured the various areas, stopping to take lots of pictures and at the same time learning about each mountain, trail, lake, mountain, canyon, glacier, etc. We drove to the Alabasca falls where we also took fantastic pictures. This is a must-see area. Take your time and enjoy it all!"
Pure gorgeousness. Have no words to describe. Totally out of the world. But the beauty can be beheld only after the hike on the hill.
"Our waitress from previous evening mention this was one her favorite spots to visit. We set out and as previous review mention [The road is very well maintained, nonetheless I can imagine it must be a treacherous drive under bad weather condition. During peak tourist season, it is probably best to drive there early or late in the day when traffic is light.] We got there early and enjoyed the serenity Mt. Edith Cavell has to offer. Nice short hiking trails.Read the story about this area and its history."
Amazing views and very accessible for families with young kids or grandparents. We plan to return to do the meadow hike.
"Mt. Edith Cavell is a very special place in the Canadian Rockies. It is intensely awe-inspiring, and is our favorite attraction in Jasper National Park.Maybe it is supposed to be a hidden gem, we were unable to locate any sign on Mt. Edith Cavell driving from either direction of Icefields Parkway. After searching carefully on the map, we found out we should take the road to Marmot Basin, about 5km to the south of Jasper town and 2km to the north of Valley of Five Lakes. There is a 30min (about 18km) drive from Icefields Parkway to the parking of Mt. Edith Cavell, about 13km of which is on a narrow winding mountain road. The road is very well maintained, nonetheless I can imagine it must be a treacherous drive under bad weather condition. During peak tourist season, it is probably best to drive there early or late in the day when traffic is light."
The drive up I will admit is awful. Switchback after switchback after switchback but pretty unreal when you get to the top. If you are quiet you can hear ice breaking and coming down the mountain if you are lucky. The trail at the bottom is quite long but worth experiencing.
"This is one of our favorite spots in Jasper Park. The mountain is very distinctive. There is a very nice trail that takes you uphill to an excellent view of the mountain and Angel Glacier. The parking lot fills early, so getting there by 9 AM is a good idea. If you stop down the road from the parking lot for Edith Cavell, you can walk down to Cavell Lake. You can get some great pictures of the mountain and lake, particularly in the morning."
This is a very beautiful lookout point. The glacier is disappearing fast. You might see some ground squirrels along the path. The drive up is a bit winding ... make sure you slow down on the road. The parking lot can be a bit crazy.
"I was there during the summer time and it was amazing. Just to walk around, take a close look at the glacier, the creek, the valley... Very peaceful. Fill your waterbottle directly in the river, fresh glacier water, the best i have ever had."
"A great drive, invigorating walk to the viewpoint. Closest you will get to a mountain face in the Park. Keep you eye on the glacier to the left and wait to see and hear an avalanche. Once in a life time event."
"I have visited Mt Edith Cavell and Angel Glacier three times during the last 4 years and in three different seasons. It has been accessible in April and October – for sure in July as well. And it has been worth seeing it in all seasons.There was a major flood recently – this is why the lower trail to the foot of the glacier is not accessible any more, but the upper one is still worth seeing.Should you ask yourself whether or not the Cavell Meadows trail should be done (most probably just possible during summer), I can just say: If your are interested in nature, most of the trails in Jasper Nationalpark are worth seeing, so if you have the time: Hike that trail!If you are looking for a good spot to take pictures you should definitely take it, because it takes you further up which enhances your chances of getting a picture with some nice reflections in the lake below the glacier."
Go to the car park at the end of the road and do the short but steep walk to the Ice Lake and view of Angel glacier (separate review). It's worth it.
"Beautiful National park in Northern America, with long foam mountains in miles capped by beautiful bright white snow, few animals can be seen when driving Bears, some kind of Antelopes), also Best campsites for families and friends are available, clean lakes, beautiful flowers are one of the great traction that interest everyone Soul! Even thou I am from East Africa I loved this Park will never forget!"
"Mt. Edith Cavell has the Angel Glacier and the Ghost Glacier. The hike to get close to the glacial lake is not far, but you can hike further into the meadow. While we were viewing the glacier, a rock slide came down the face of the mountain. It was really impressive to hear the thundering crack before it fell. We thought it was going to be a calving of the glacier but it turned out to be a rock slide. The force of nature is amazing. The glaciers are truly awesome."
"Thoroughly rewarding trip..14km up a switchback road to a car park, which was full but given a little patience everyone gets a spot;) A well maintained trail leads you to the lower view point at Cavell Lake, this can be busy but the views of the Angel glacier are great. It is however well worth taking the meadows trail up to the next viewing point about a 15 minute walk. The views are astounding of both the glacier and the surrounding mountainside. Great place to relax, have some lunch and take it all in. It's also quieter with most people opting to stay at the lower point. Allow yourself time to sit and ponder ??"
Took the 93a there and saw a black bear on the back of the lake. Nice drive by itself but seeing angel glacier just added to it. This is a Jasper must do.
"This was well worth a visit. We were lucky with the weather, it was cold but dry. The walk up to the glacier was only 15 minutes. We then went up part way on the longer trail and got a great view looking down on the lake, only another 15 minute walk. The chipmunks were very friendly and joined us as we ate our sandwiches, cheeky little things."
"The drive to the top isn't too bad considering the switchbacks, etc. The views are amazing the minute you step out of the car but the more you walk, the better it gets! Unfortunately we didn't allow enough time. it was getting late in the day but we loved every minute here. Give yourself enough time!"
"Went early and got the last space in the small car park. Hiked to the top, where only a few people managed it. Well worth the climb to see the glacier. Heard and saw the ice cracking and ice falling off and water flowing on the Glacier. Peaceful at the top."
"Windy drive up to lookout, small climb to lookout. We did it around 6pm, not too busy. Fairly close view of glaciers, see path of destruction where a piece fall off in 2012. A beautiful view."
Superb. Easy to find just park in the lot and walk to the glacier viewing point. There was also a hike up to the meadows which looked interesting.
"Amazing place and the only reason this isn't number one is that fewer people visit there. Thankfully. Magnificent, beautiful, peaceful and offers spectacular scenery / turquoise lake, glacier, icebergs, distant views. ....to name but a few. Highly recommend if you are a nature loving visitor....More"
"We arrived mid-morning on a weekday, around 9:30, to find the parking lot absolutely packed. A bit upset at the crowds, we nonetheless got out and started out on our hike to summit the mountain. There is a paved pathway that leads to the overlook for Angel Glacier. Beautiful spot for pictures, but again, crowded. We started on the hike to the summit and POOF , the crowds vanished, leaving us very happily trekking through absolutely breathtaking scenery. You switchback gently up the mountainside and once you reach the tree line the trail becomes a good deal steeper. Any reasonably fit person should be able to do this hike. It does get even steeper the closer you get to the summit, but do not turn back ! The view is just absolutely breathtaking. We even heard ice cracking on Angel Glacier and saw some snow fall off into the valley below. The summit is cold and very windy in late August, so bring a light jacket for comfort. All in all, it took our group of 6 adults a total of 4 hours round trip. This includes a lengthy stop at the top for a picnic. After completing this hike I would suggest going to the nearby Five Lakes hiking area, it's quite easy and a nice way to wind down the evening."
"Must go! It's a beautiful, easy walk. You reach a small lake/pond with icebergs floating in it about halfway through the walk. It is magical, and beautiful."
"Simply put this on your bucket list, the scenery is astonishing as is the wildlife and plethora of activities for all ages and experience levels"
"Beautiful place to spend a couple of hours or half a day with a hike of the surrounding area, beautiful and serene location."
"Went to Mount Edith Cavell the day after snow fell in late August and it was magical! The walk up was only moderately challenging, lots of steps but if you take your time it's fine. Also gives you a chance to enjoy the incredible views. I went with sundogs as part of their guided tour and it was great! Hearing the stories, science and history behind it all gives depth to the sight your eyes see! Hard to get to without a car, but take a guided tour because it's worth it!!"
It's a 30 mins moderate hike from parking lot and you can see the Glacier from a close distance. Amazing view!!
"The quality of the experience here may vary by time of year, but I found it to be pretty spectacular the first week of August. The shorter trail to the glacier is fairly easy and provides good views of the area and of the melt water/ice running into the pond. If you listen, you can actually here as the amount of run-off changes from minute to minute. If you're really lucky (as I was) you may even see huge chunks of ice break off and come crashing down into the pond below. Was very cool!"
"This hike was my favorite of our whole Jasper trip. The path is really nicely paved and it is pretty steep but the views are incredible. The path even has benches along it so you can stop and rest or just take in all of the scenery. The view at the end of the Path of the Glacier trail is amazing - you can see Ghost, Angel, and Cavell glaciers and Cavell pond. There were icebergs floating in it when we went! Don't miss this!"
It's beautiful and worth the short and easy hike. Road up to falls is very winding. Outhouses in parking lot were clean even while heavily used.
"Amazing location! Can't believe that you can get to walk so close to the glacier. Can't believe how warm it was during summer, even being so close to the glacier. Be prepared to face lot of mosquitoes. Driving up to the lake gave a glimpse of some wild animals like bears - both black and brown bears! Be careful getting out of the car."
"There are two trails here. There's a short interpretive walk where you get a view of the glacier and lake. There's some decent signs that tell about the glaciers and how a piece of one fell into the lake and caused a flash flood. You can see the results on the road in. There is also a pretty strenuous hike to the top where you get a great view. It looks like it's not that far but it is. It is pretty steep. We did other hikes that were longer with more elevation gain but this is the only one that we considered strenuous. It was a steep climb up loose rocks. Felt a little dangerous at times. Luckily, the trails wasn't crowded. Seemed like people were going up for a while... spent some time at the top, and then people started going down. Lucky that it happened that way be cause it'd be difficult if not dangerous trying to pass people going the opposite way. All in all, it was a good hike with great views. Felt good once you got to the top!"
When driving to the parking lot you will see two different paths. One designated and paved and the other made by climbers and hikers. We choose to take the mountain path where the climbers were coming from. It is a steep climb and the rocks are very crumbly and soft. Be very careful and maintain contact with surface when in doubt. The view from up here is amazing ! About 10min all the way up and you can view the glacier and all the water. Looking back the way you came you have a view of another lake of blue water (beautiful scene)It's a breathtaking view you cannot get from the main trail. Definitely recommended but it can be a little dangerous as it is very high and steep up in the mountain. Have fun and be safe.
Breathtaking hike. Not many people. Drive is very scenic. View of the Mountain and glacier is majestic.
"If you love driving up mountain roads with hairpin bends, this is for youBeing in North America, it's sanitised, so there are no real scary bits - we even passed a few smaller RVsI'm from the UK and have been having a few problems judging where exactly my right hand wheels are on the road, but I had no mishaps - I was never forced too far to my right because the road was always wide enough to pass.Give it a try. We loved Mt Washington, and we love this one too"
"Incredible drive up! My mom was absolutely terrified of the drop. My dad and I loved it though. The view was amazing. Would recommend an experienced driver because of all the crazy twists and turns. Once you're almost up there's a nice bridge with a view of the lake. If you continue the drive it looks like it ends but don't be fooled, there's a parking lot with an amazing view of the mountainWe regret not walking up the hike. NEXT TIME THOUGH!"
Very popular because it is one of the best leading to the glacier with waterfalls and alpine meadows.
Take the Alpine road to the end of the valley then walk for 15 minutes. Take your bear & 'mozzie' spray and you will be rewarded with a very humbling view of the glacier - what's left of it - and the serene lake with ice floats. You can begin to imagine what it must have been like when a large chunk of this glacier dropped off a few years ago and landed in the lake!
"AWESOME motorcycle ride to the trailheads, the short hike is very doable even at 62, AMAZING VIEWS, feeling the coolness of the Glacier and a feeling of MAJESTIC WONDER!"
"Worth the drive, and uphill hike for spectacular views of the Glacier. Surprising how many people disregard safety signs and walk close to lake with possibility of falling rocks and ice! Stay on the trail to stay safe. Both kids under 14 yrs, did just fine on this walk. Stunning scenery!"
"The trip to Angel Glacier is a good experience.The hike takes around 1-2 hours depending on your space.
the view is breathtaking and we really enjoyed the scenic beauty up there."
"You'll get a great view of Angel Glacier along with a great trail full of wild flowers (if you travel in July)
We documented our entire trip here - http://www.lifeinmichigan.com/canadian-rockies-2015-jasper-adventure/"
"This is one awesome hike with spectacular scenery from start to finish! It was our favorite hike in Jasper National Park. The day we were there was blustery with alternating clouds and sun. (This probably explained why we had no problem getting a parking space!). First, we joined the many others on the Path of the Glaciers Trail to the Angel Glacier lookout. The glacier looks like a reclining angel with wings outstretched in a cirque on the huge wall of Mt. Edith Cavell. We learned that the bottom part of this glacier broke off and fell into the gorgeous blue-green ""pond"" at its base a number of years ago. We could see icebergs floating in the pond! Incredible! If you stop your hike here, you will enjoy awe-inspiring scenery. But if you're up for it, head up this mostly steep, pretty well-graded yet rock-strewn trail called Cavell Meadows Trail. the first part of the trail is filled with huge boulders, remnants of the glacier's path. We crossed a couple of small streams, then started another steep climb through forest, eventually coming upon meadows that were filled with wildflowers. (It was also filled with mosquitos! We applied DEET and weren't bothered but we saw many people swatting and swatting and swatting. This was the only place we experienced mosquitos in such numbers.) We first hiked to the lower viewpoint which offered incredible views of the mountain (Edith Cavell), the Angel Glacier, the pond below it, the valley = magnificent! We had our lunch up here and marveled at the grandeur. Then we headed a little ways down this trail and connected with the upper viewpoint trail. Again the trail here was steep and rock-strewn but worth the climb. Before we got to the top, it began to hail! As the path got very slippery, we decided to retrace our steps instead of pushing to the very top. About 20 minutes after it began, the hail stopped. We had our raingear but we saw a number of folks who were pretty wet. We headed back down the trail, regularly pausing to express our wonder at this glorious place. This was a fantastic hike. Doing the Path of the Glacier trail and the Cavell Meadow trail (with many photo stops and a lunch break) took us around 4.5 hours. Time so very well spent!"
"Grab a picnic lunch in Jasper and then take this windy steep road up to its end. Hike just beyond the parking lot and you'll find a pair of picnic tables offering fantastic views up to the summit. Even if you hike no further, you'll have a great view and the picnic tables are just far enough away from the parking lot to leave the crowd behind."
"Better than the Ice Glacier Hyway!! No charge and you can get really close, excellent interpretive signs on history and latest glacier collapse!! A must see for a visitor!!"
Excellent narrow switchback full mountain road and well maintained hiking trail to base of glacier of Mt Edit Cavell
"A fairly short walk takes you to an amazing view of what they call a ""hanging glacier"", with waterfalls cascading down into a pool of water with an amazing color. Definitely not to be missed!!!"
"Magnificent place. Lovely short hike from the car park to the glacier and lake. The views have to be seen to be believed and it is only a very short drive from Jasper.
Thoroughly recommended."
"Cavell meadows are amazing..several trails plus open exploration options from the ""top""..great to hike slowly OR jog up..amazing!!!"
"Mount Edith Cavell is a striking mountain that is visible from a number of places in Jasper National Park. You can drive to the base of the mountain by following a twisting entrance road off of the old highway 93A. Because of the sharp switchbacks, only vehicles less than 7 meters (about 25 feet) are allowed. No trailers and no large RVs. There is parking lot on 93A opposite the access road where you can unhook your trailer, or detach your towed car.From the parking lot, you can hike a relatively short (0.5 km?), paved, uphill trail to an overlook. The overlook gives you a good view of the north face of the mountain, the glacier, and the pond at the base of the glacier. The trail from the overlook to the pond is closed for safety. In 2012, an avalanche caused a large amount of ice to slide into the lake, immediately causing a flash flood that carried a huge amount of debris across the entrance to the parking lot and down 100 meters of the entrance road.The debris has been pushed to the side and the parking lot has been reopened. Because most the debris is still there, it may look like the entrance road is blocked, but there is actually a nice parking lot still available.I recommend starting your day at Athabasca Falls before the big crowds arrive, then drive up highway 93A to Mt. Edith Cavell.By the way, the mountain is named after a pretty amazing person. Edith was a World War I nurse who helped smuggle 1,000 wounded British soldiers from a Belgium hospital behind German lines."
"Arrive early to beat the crowds if possible. Short walk from the parking lot up the trail to the lookout area. The Angel Glacier at the top of the mountain is a sight in and of itself but the Glacier in Cavell Pond is the most amazing spectacle to me. We walked down to the water, against the recommendation of the ""Danger"" signs. The teal and green color of the Cavell Pond Glacier is something to behold. We spent 2 hours walking around the shore of the pond taking pics and rock walking. Mt Edith is the top of my list in Jasper for ""Things to Do"""
The view of Angel Glacier is great and doesn't require too much hiking. Complete the Cavell Meadows Loop for a real treat! Start your hike early if you want the trail to yourself and a parking spot. I started the hike at about 7 AM and it was really nice to be able to take pictures at my own pace and without other hikers in them. It's a lot of fun seeing hoary marmots and pikas sharing the trail with you!
"The road signs say that this is a rough road - in England we'd just call it a road, The views of Mount Edith Cavel and the Angel Glacier are spectacular as is the ice fed pond below with mini mini icebergs. A don't miss visit within 30 minutes of Jasper."
A lovely spot not far from Jasper townsite. There is a short (15 minute) uphill trail to the viewpoint where you can see Angel Glacier. There is also a longer trail (several hours) up to Cavell Meadows which is a nice hike if you have the time.
"Lots if wildlife.My young daughter was worried about the long hike and then I told her about who and why this mountain was named. She then announced that if Edit was strong enough to do what she did, then she could conquer this hike. Made us smile. Take your time, water and snacks. Go and see the Angel!"
Get there early and avoid the crowds. The glacier is impressive but the path is closed so you cant get close up. The trail to the meadows requires you to carry bear spray..
Nice hike and the glacier is close enough for good shots. We even heard snow falling off the glacier twice and this make a thunder style loud noise. Worth the long snaky style road to get there.
Thanks to Jasper Parks as they have opened another trekking route half way between view point. Kids were disappointed as they could not go closer but the other route took us to a better view. Landscape is changing every time we go there..
"Was a lovely site with its glacier and milky green lake at the foot of the mountain. We hiked along the trails and had lunch at a beautiful view point overlooking the mountain and glacier, well worth the effort. Beautiful scenery and saw my first marmot. A great day out."
Great exercise and views. Loved it. The climb and benches laid out every now and then made the climb and elevation easier. The view was wonderful.
"If you have a car available, don't miss this on your trip in the parc. Buses are not allowed, so the tour operators will not taky you here. A 15 minute walk will take you close to a great glacier. The shape reminds of an angel with open wings."
Mt. Edith Cavel is not far from Jasper down the Icefields Parkway. My wife and I had been to Mt. Edith Cavell when we were in Jasper in 2009. The road was not not in good condition back then and it took quite a long time to get there. This visit was an easier drive this time and I made it to the pond with less trouble - except that there were many flies and mosquitos. It is sad to see so how much has melted since that time (we noticed the same at Athabasca Glacier).It was a good visit and I would recommend it if you are visiting Jasper or traveling the Icefields Parkway.
"The short hike to the view of the glacier and waterfalls is worth it. If you continue hiking you head up and will find your self in a beautiful meadow and some mosquitos. You could see wildlife along here too, 3 different marmots ran across the trail in front of me."
"We had a wonderful,hike up to Edith Cavell. There is a nice trail that is a gentle incline up about 1km. At the end, one can see the angel glacier over a beautiful glacier fed lake. The waterfalls on the way up are charming, and it is well populated. If you are more adventurous, you can continue to the edge of the lake and see the glacier up close. There is also a wildflower field on up the trail, but we skipped this due to the Grizzly warning in that area. Bears like beautiful flowers too I guess."
"From Jasper, we took the serene,scenic route to Mt. Edth Cavell, one of the highest mountains in the region. The scenery along this road is unparalleled, winding through coniferous forests, with a deep river valley accompanying us all the way.The road culminates at the base of Mt. Edth Cavell, from where it is a good trek up a steep path right to the foot of the mountain. I was the only one of our family who opted for this rather arduous trek but just watching the wondrous sights as I climbed, made me quite oblivious to the rigours of the climb. At the last point I was higher than the glacial lake at the foot of the mountain and could see ""icebergs"" floating in the lake!!The mountain was almost in handshaking distance and one of the glaciers, spawned by it, which resembled a moose head, was very interesting indeed.After this trek, we drove to the small lake a little farther down the road and were enticed by its deep green colour, quite different from most of the other lakes we had seen enroute.We walked (or rather slid down) to the lake shore and walked along it for quite some distance so as to get a reflection of the muntain in its calmwaters. This was a big ask and we got our feet totally wet in the process. But the scene was just extraordinary!!!From here we also saw Moab Lake on the way to Athabasca falls, with a chance meeting with group of mountain goats just above the road!! Here I had a very peculiar experience---I wanted to get a little closer to capture these white coated beasts on film so I climbed a little distance from the road but when the alpha male saw me approaching, it made a very threatening stance and moved closer to me. I immediately beat a hasty retreat much to merriment of the other onlookers!!!From here we proceeded to Athabasca falls which roars through a very peculiar, eroded very interesting landscape . After having our fill of the falls, we drove on to meet the main branch of the Icefields Parkway and were on our way back to Calgary."
"We visited Mt Edith Cavell after visiting Athabasca Falls. The road is winding leading to Mt Edith Cavell. It is definitely worth the drive! There is a short hike from the parking lot that leads to an even more spectacular view. There are longer trails in the area, but we were not prepared for it. The short trail was definitly worth it!"
Mt Edith was a bit of a drive long winding road was lots of fun on a motorcycle although you are not allowed to drive large vehicles up this road. gravel at the end of the road but the view of the mountain was great. quiet and serene. would be a great place to watch sunset
"we drove from Hinton along hwy 16 E and it took about 1/5 hrs to get there. \paid to get into Jasper Prov park (9.60 ea) Big information centre there, plus café. They have lots of info on various places to visit. There's a deck behind the centre to take pics. Also a steep hiking trail if you want to do that. Ask for a map."
"Mount Edith Cavell is a beautiful place to visit. The glaciers on it are spectacular. It's a little bit of a drive, but definitely worth it."
Jasper National Park has so much to offer and Mt. Edith Cavell is certainly one of the mountains or trails that you can explore.
we went all the way to the glacier lake and the view were rewarding! Where else you can see a glacier lake? It was one of the best things we did near Jasper! Don't miss it!
This is a short little hike to viewpoint. It's more like a 10min walk up on half paved path. The view is magnificent and worth the hike. It can get windy so be prepared.
"Spend 45 minutes (RT) walking to the glacial pond at Mount Edith Cavell and Angel Glacier and you will come face to face with this majestic mountain. It is well worth the drive just outside of Jasper. But Mt. Edith Cavell Road is not for the faint hearted. There are some hairpin turns, but nothing that is impossible. The hike to the Cavell Meadows was still snowy in mid June but the short jaunt to the pond is breathtaking."
"We had hoped to visit the mountain up close and personal. By June 22nd the road was not yet open. We did, however, get several views with Mt. Edith Cavell as the center point of our photos. She was one of the only mountains mostly snow covered."
"A must do when in Jasper. We enjoy the views at Mt Edith Cavell more than the Columbia IceFields.. The ""hike"" up to the viewpoint, is a well paved, fairly gradual climb that takes about 15 mins. My 8 and 5 year old can do it with ease. It is worth it. Walk up and see the glacier lake and waterfalls up close. Amazing!!!"
Really enjoyed seeing this Mountain/Glacier so close up it was well worth the drive but be prepared for a long difficult drive with lots of hairpin bends with 15 kph speed limits.Just before the car park and as you leave the road slow down as the road has avalanche debris and many stones are really sharp so watch out for punctures but go slowly (or you have a 4wd) no problem
Take the time and do the hike and you won't be sorry! Absolutely stunning views. I came while camping with my family for a few hours. We drank water right from the glacier! Such an amazing experience I will never forget. Beautiful nature and all the fresh air you can take in. Checked off my bucket list. Enjoy! xx
"It is a bit of a drive up, and you may get car sick. It's worth it though so just take your gravol, zofran, Maxeran, ginger, or whatever and go! The mountain and glacier are absolutely phenomenal. There is a nice trail to walk along for the views; however, the lower portion was wiped out by part of the glacier falling into the lake, causing a tsunami."
The coolest place to stop in Lady Cavell area is a kilometer or two before the main parking area. There is a wooded bridge crossing a small river or creek. It's this spot where most of the BEST PHOTOS have been taken of Mount Lady Cavell. I believe you take the first 10 or 15 minutes of the Tonquin Valley Trail. I HIGHLY RECOMMEND taking this little walk down the first 10 minutes of the Tonquin Valley Trail. The views are much better there of Mount Lady Cavell. THis was one of my favorite spots in Jasper.
"I know that it is ""off the path"" a bit, but if you are going to travel to Jasper then you need to come here. The vistas and the icebergs were awesome! We did a nice couple hour walk and built some cairns with the hundreds of them that are already lining the trail and waters edge. It was very quiet and peaceful there as well. We were lucky enough to see 2 grizzlies on our way out that were chowing down huckleberries!"
You have to see it to believe it at the foot of this Glacier. Well worth the walk and taking a camera. Breathtaking and memorable. Take the short hike and see for yourself.
"Although it was June, it was still, by my definition anyway, quite chilly, but then I am from Southern California. People were not chilly, however, and the scenery was spectacular!!!"
This area is full of raw beauty and nature in all her glory! Loved the hiking and found the views spectacular. Canada has some of the most beautiful provincial and national parks in the world.
Although we did this trip several years ago I still remember how beautiful it was to drive up to Mt Edith Clavell and experience the lake and mountains at sunset. In the summer this is quite late in the evening but it is really worth it. Just be sure to bring your bug spray.Our visit was prior to 2014 but I could not choose an earlier date below.
"If you are in or near Jasper it is worth following the windy road off the main highway just to get up to at least the foothills of this mountain. You can walk a good way up the mountain, and the views get better as you ascend. You can get great photo opportunities as well as views of the nearby glaciers."
I went up in October and only hiked down to the lake. It was a stunning landscape. Much of the lake had a thin sheet of green ice on it and it was beautiful
"Being sea level dwellers we were unsure how we would manage hiking at higher altitudes.The first stage to view Angel Glacier and Pond was easy along a well paved path surrounded by starkly beautiful scenery. Encouraged by this we walked part of the way to Cavell Meadows. At a boulder field we stopped as we had superb views across to the glacier and down into the pond. Little picas and golden-mantled ground squirrels scampered along the rocks beside us gathering food for the coming winter, it was quite charming.We have one regret time did not permit us to hike all the way to the meadows which we were told are quite spectacular for lovers of wildflowers."
We were camping off our motorcycles pretty close and took the ride up to the base of the trail to the glacier. A pretty short walk to the lake and glacier is easy and amazing.Cavell was a heroic WWI nurse and this is a great monument to her. The Canadian Rockies are all amazing but this certainly is one of the crown jewels.
"I cannot believe there are only over 200 reviews! Either not many people done it or heard about it. You have to see it with your own eyes. It was one of the biggest highlights of my travels in Rocky mountains. I was blown away by the scenery of the glacier and its pond with massive ice chunks in it. It was empty when I arrived by the poind so the energy around was magic. So peaceful and mystical only hearing ice cracking, absolutely amazing! By the way the path to the pond was closed however I just ignored the sign. How can you miss such an experience and not go close to the pond?! I did not have time to go further up but I was so blown away that I spend half day only there, thats how incredible this place was. Also dont miss the Cavell lake on the way up or down. Beautiful green color lake. Its a must place to visit if you are visiting Rockies. Please note that no camper vans allowed to drive up this tiny road up. Also its a seasonal road and closed for winter. Can't recommend it enough! :)"
"Follow the trail from the parking lot to your left for chance to get real close to the Angel glacier (taking the necessary precautions, of course, to avoid falling ice), and marvel at the majestic north face of Edith Cavell. Quiet sad though to consider how fast the glacier is retreating."
"About 80% of hikers appear to only go to the base of the Angel glacier and lake below. Amazing view and great pictures. It's a quick 10-15 minute walk there.But the real beauty is to the meadow above. It's a 10 KM hike and intermediate difficulty, but the views are stunning and you might see a black bear like we did!"
"Beautiful natural hike and detailed description of the mountains/attraction. Pathway very narrow and unsteady at times, steep as well, going up or down, not for the faint at heart. Beautiful natural attraction otherwise."
"I have to say that this was probably the best day of out entire Canadian adventure and that is saying something. Arriving at what is a very understated car park you look up at the mountain (with a glimpse of the glacier) and you think well its nothing more special that most of the other mountains I have seen so far but.....There are lots of good information boards around and they tell you exactly how far things are. Most people take the 2.4km pathway (mostly tarmac) up to the glacier and then return and go home. There is nothing wrong with that as you get good views of the glacier, the lake below with chunks of ice floating in it and the devastating dredge the water made on the landscape when a large section of the glacier broke off in 2012 - damaging trails and the road which are still being repaired.However, we decided to take the off shoot for Carvell Meadows and took it very easily as we climbed and made our way along fairly well laid paths (stones not tarmac) and walked for about another kilometer and climbing the rocks had a picnic with the most beautiful of views. The change of perspective was well worth the effort and if you sit quiet and still enough you will be amazed at the wildlife that makes theirs homes in the rocks and forage for scant returns at not much grows at this height. Now before you start thinking that we were 'off-roading' I can assure you we stayed within the path system that was easily visible on the rocks.After returning to the car we also called in at Carvell Lake which is very pretty but so difficult to get a photo of as nature has blocked off all high view points."
"The drive which turns off of Route 93A south of Jasper, AB, is not for the faint of heart! It is a twisty mountain road, but the destination is worth it. Mt. Edith Cavell is one of the most scenic spots around Jasper. The trails are fairly easy, but you should try to get there early in the day as parking is very limited. If the lot is full, you might end up parking on the side of the road and hiking back."
We were visiting that place at the beginning of July. Unfortunately long hiking trail was still closed due to the ice and snow. We went shorter path and it was also amazing. We went to the glacier lake. You can find there huge ice rocks on the shore. Amazing photo opportunity. A must visit place. Free car park.
"Great Glacier, continually melting as you watch, icefield with bergs belo. Area being re-established and pathways mproved since other glacier broke up. Good information boards and several trails for more experienced to follow."
"This is a really surprising venue. After driving up the mountain road (very safe) from the main highway, nothing prepares you for the scene at the end of the short footpath from the car park. The glacier hovering above the turquoise lake is incredible. If you are visiting Jasper be sure to visit Mount Edith Cavell."
Just One of many Rocky Mountain Jasper National Park spectacular views. Something one needs to take a moment to take it it all in whether as a drive by or a stop and view.
"This is an absolute must when in Jasper. The views, the lake, the glacier are all amazing sites. Its quite popular so go early or late if you want to avoid a lot of people. The road up is winding and long but if you stop to take in the views and go down to the lake it is well worth every minute!"
"Loved it. There are a number of hikes in the area that take you to some amazing places. Found the Travel Alberta Mountains, Stunning views."
"This is a highlight of a trip to Jasper, especially on a clear day. The views are wonderful and the hike, while a bit strenuous at times--up to the meadow--that is worth it. Even not doing the meadow hike there are great views and that part of the walk is very easy. We had been there several years ago when you could still walk down to the lake and back along through the valley but unfortunately this is now off limits due to a large piece of ghost Glacier breaking off in 2012 and flooding the area. It is now considered too dangerous to go down that low. One can still see the damage to the paring area and end of the road up. The road up is steep and winds around but is in great shape (much better than several years ago!)."
"Serious hike to the meadows but an amazing reward of an eye level view of Mt. Edith Cavell. Short drive from Jasper, Stay on the path because the meadow is so fragile and growth so slow. Read the history on the name. The feature of Mt Edith Cavell is the Angel Glacier hanging off the side of the mountain. It has shrunk so much since we started hiking it but remains stunning."
Wow.wow.wow.wow! This was a 2 to 3 hr walk but oh boy what a view. You could even hear the glaciers cracking. Expect an uphill plod but it's good exercise to work off the beer you deserved later in the day.
"we visited after 5pm so had the mountain to ourselves. wonderful walk with great views - glacier, lichens, flowers - no wildlife. Make sure you go on a clear day as the views make this visit a must do."
Get there early as it is popular! The sight of the two glaciers is so impressive. The sounds of the glacier cracking is fantastic. We got off on the rock climbers trail by the moraine which was a bit tricky but had it all to ourselves along with marmots and picas! The meadow trail is wonderful with super views! Still get there EARLY!
"We walked from the car park through the wilderness trails to the glacier lake. There are still hanging glaciers but these are melting fast, in fact you can tell where the glacier covered on your walk up from the car park. A very pleasant experience to get back to nature and the peacefulness of the area."
"An amazing sight to see, stunning, but make sure you bring your warm weather stuff to take a walk as it's much cooler there than in Jasper"
"The North Face of Edith Cavell is one of the classic climbs in North America. Angel Glacier and the hulking mountain are visible from all over the Jasper area. Ice bergs in a lake in August, a variety of short/medium hikes, this is what Jasper is all about."
"The steep, uphill pathway to Mt. Edith Cavell Glacier is well worth the effort if taken slowly up to the viewing spot right opposite the glacier, waterfall and gorgeous coloured pool. Well worth seeing, especially as it can be seen that the glacier has already melted a lot, but is still deep and majestic at the top of the mountain. Very scenic for avid photographers."
"One warning as you drive up, it is a long winding road and a few of the curves going up have blind spots. Driving back down was by far less stressful. Once up the gravel parking area had ample space in the late afternoon. The views of the glacier were amazing. The trail was well maintained, but if heights bother you may want to stay in the first viewing area."
The drive is very special but the walk on the trail to the glacier is the best part. The views of the glacier unforgetable.#1 attraction in Jasper Park.The fact that they enable to reach it by car is a magnificent job by the Park people.
"Don't stop at the glacier viewpoint - it's amazing, but there's more. The walk to the ridge was long but exhilirating. 5 hour round trip but the flowers during early August near the top are amazing. You can constantly hear the glacier cracking and marvel at the strength of it. You can see forever."
"A fantastic hike but go early. The morning light makes the mountain explode in color, washes out later in the day. Multitudes of tourists start to arrive at 10, so get started at 7 if you can."
This is the best hike in Jasper NP IMO. The whole hike took just under 4 hours. There are flowers everywhere. It is so pretty in summer. Added bonus is the glacier you can really close to and the views from the top are superb.
The views of the 'angel' and 'ghost' glacier are really once in a lifetime stuff and you can continue up the trail to see views of them from a higher altitude. This was one of our most memorable stops and the photos taken here are picture postcard worthy. Definitely worth a visit. I would recommend you go early as the car park was nearly full when we arrived at 10.30 so can only imagine it gets busier throughout the day.
"Spectacular views. However, no information on who Edith Cavell was but we learned all about the white men who allegedly discovered this mountain and the surrounding mountains. Seriously, in 2014 we are still going to say that white men discovered the Rockies when we know how long First Nations lived there???? An elderly couple also visiting were the ones to ask who was Edith Cavell, and fortunately I had my iPhone and service so could read who she was. Parks Canada: it's 2014, get with the program."
A short hike to the face of the mountain and Angel Glacier takes you to a sellbinding view. There is excellent signage about the site especially about the glacier fall which caused a tsunami in the valley in the Summer of 2012. An absolute must if in the Jasper area.
"This hike is one of my all-time favorites. It is invigorating, uplifting, majestic. You travel up the mountain all the while enjoying varying views of glaciers, forest and alpine flowers. The crashing thunderclaps of shifting glaciers were a true force of nature witnessed firsthand. We saw two rock slides on Edith Cavell due to the glacier's shifting. We came early to avoid the crowds. We were glad we did as the trip back down became a bit busy on the lower portions of the trail. Be prepared for a windy mountain road up to the trail parking lot, but it can be a bit of fun as well."
We had never seen glaciers or icebergs until we came here. Incredible experience. The hikes around here are amazing and the moraine lake...breathtaking!!!
A solid week of hiking and camping and this hike was definitely my favorite. We went all the way to the ridge with our 12 and 13 year olds
"This was a great hike - there are varied levels and you can go for longer or shorter, depending on your desire/ability. It's a lot of climbing, so not especially easy, but well-marked trail. Able to see lakes, glaciers, meadows and flowers all in one...More"
"There are hiking trails at the top, but there is a parking area with great views not requiring any hiking. Due to a flood caused by a part of the glacier falling off, there are several new walking paths, bridges, and picnic tables around a small stream. The drive to the top is pretty steep and winding - not sure I'd want to take an RV up."
"This was probably one of our favourite hikes of our stay in the Rockies. We visited at the end of July, and trail conditions were very good and well sign posted. We were worried about the road after reading previous reviews but our tiny rental car had no problems at all, and we enjoyed the scenic drive up to the trail head. I would recommend arriving early and bringing mosquito spray.The walk to the viewpoint for Angel glacier is easy but the views are dramatic and to see chunks of ice floating in Cavell Pond was amazing. The glacier hanging above you is an incredible sight.Following the trail to the meadows was absolutely stunning, although fairly steep at times. The beauty of the wildflower meadows cannot be overstated - the variety in colours and shading is indescribable. The view of Angel Glacier from this point is even more stunning.One of our favourite hikes, easily, and the park workers have done a fantastic job of preserving a fragile environment by managing the times the trail is open."
"Mount Edith Cavell is named after a WWI nurse and it is majestic thanks to the Angel Glacier, so-called because of its shape, or perhaps the angelic nature of the nurse.Driving to it on 93A can be challenging, the road is narrow and winding but the road was recently resurfaced and accessible to all cars except large recreational vehicles.We spotted black Bears and elk roaming freely around it. Under the Glacier is a pond where chunks of ice float, and further down is a small lake. The hike to the base of the Glacier is short and sweet. There are many trails to be discovered around it. Not to be missed."
"I would highly recommend the meadows trail at Mt. Edith Cavell. You drive quite a bit to get to the trail head but it's spectacular. It's a short walk to view the glacier and lake opposite you. As you climb the trail you'll experience an area of rocks that was once a mountain (pushed down by a glacier), a forest, flowery meadows, small animals and then you'll be above the tree line and the views are breathtaking. it's a strenuous hike; bring water , snacks and hiking sticks."
"The road to Mt Edith Cavell was a bit of a surprise. I was told it was quite narrow and windy, however I did not expect it to be like that. Just be careful on the road as there are many cars that cut corners on the switch backs! Once you get to the top, the views are phenomenal. It's a short walk (uphill) to Cavell Pond at the base of the mountain where most people stop. There is, however, the possibility to continue on and do a longer hike. It's a bit colder up there, so bring a sweater in case you need it. A must see on a visit to Jasper!"
"We took 93a towards Edith Cavell based upon a recommendation. Not only did we see bears (baby and mamma), but the short hike was great. It included a glacier and lake below that has small icebergs in it. So worth the trip, we all enjoyed it."
You can't get up with an RV over 7m and with a smaller RV you have to be careful as the road is pretty narrow. We hired a taxi that picked us up at Wabassoo Campground (70 CAD one way + taxi waits for 1 hour at the parking lot). Nice hike to the Glacier when you are at the parking lot but you can't go down to the Glacier Lake anymore as it's too dangerous. Pitty as then you could have seen the glacier very well.
"Even if you can't hike the trail, the drive from Jasper to the trailhead is beautiful and well worth the time (about 90 minutes RT). Path of the Glacier and Cavell Meadows hike (5m, about 3 hrs RT) was challenging, but not overwhelming, and beautiful; as parking lot is relatively small. best to get there by 10. Cavell Meadows is a wonderful hike with great views of Angel Glacier. And the much shorter (less than a mile RT) Path of the Glacier hike is really worthwhile. Do both if you have the time and energy."
"We drove to the car park arriving at 8:45, well before the crowds. It was cold at that time (3 deg C) but great to be with only a handful of other people (also the car park is not very big so the earlier the better). We only had time to do the short walk to the foot of the glacier, but it was not too strenuous and what a reward. The view of the glacier and small lake was stupendous. If only we had had the time to do the longer walk - next time perhaps. A must sight to see in the park."
"We went to see Mt. Edith Cavell in the rain, but it was totally worth it. When we got to the end of the trail, looking up, the mountains were right in front of us, coming down! It's a surreal feeling. We got to see the glacier and the lake. Did not go beyond the trail, but it was very tempting."
"do not do like most of the tourists and stop at the glaciers. Go all the way, you get amazing view of the glaciers from higher up, see lots of wild flowers and will probably have marmots waiting for you close to the top. just one warning, did this hike mid july and the mosquitoes were everywhere...."
"This is a popular spot, and you need a bit of energy to complete it, but thank goodness for Parks Canada, who warned us in the brochure to go before 10 a.m. or after 3 p.m. to have a quieter experience. Such a special place - the views are amazing, the paths a bit challenging, but the reward was there. A precious spot."
"You can walk a short distance from the parking lot to look at Mt. Edith Cavell and Angel Glacier, or hike the Cavell Meadows trail to get an even better look at both. Either way, the view is beautiful!"
"The drive up Mt. Edith Cavell is lovely with many great views all the way up. Take your photos as you go because the clouds move fast and the view might not be the same coming down. It is a nice road, though windy, so large RV's are not allowed on the road. There is a nice meadow trail leaving from the parking lot at the top that gives you further views of Angel glacier and the lake that is formed from the runoff. It is very neat though the trail is uphill all the way. The history of Edith Cavell is interesting and is provided on the plaques."
"We didn't plan on going. At last minute, we decided to make the climb up the steep road with many, many switchbacks. But so happy we did! Beautiful view, an easy hike up the hill to the closest viewpoint of a glacier."
"We stopped by and hiked to the glacier look out, and it was a great idea. It was getting hot and we needed to cool off! The closer to the glacier you get, the cooler it gets. Tips:- wear appropriate shoes.- take water- take your camera!"
"A quick side trip, beautiful drive up the mountain and short hike to view Angel Glacier. It was too early in the season for the longer hike to the wildflower meadow."
Be sure to read the plaques to learn the interesting history of Edith Cavell and how this location was first discovered. The history is interesting. The views are magnificent.
"Once you reach the end of a very winding road, you are in for a wonderful sight. If you walk a short distance from the car park you are at the bottom of this magnificent glazier. It has to be seen to be believed. We arrived at about 9 am so there were not many people about but heaps and heaps of mosquitoes, so make sure you take mosquito spray. You can do the full lap but we didn't as you can see the glazier and realise just how magnificent it is. If you walk a little further you will see the lake at the bottom which had ice chunks floating in it. As we were leaving there was a loud crack as some ice fell. We didn't see it but heard it. Definitely ahold be on your lists of things to do."
We returned to Edith Cavell hoping to undertake the meadows walk but were too early in the season. We have been before but due to the damage that occurred in 2012 when the glacier gave way you can no longer get close or do a round walk. It is up and down the same way. Still worth a visit though.
"In July this hike was a delight : flowers everywhere, snow on the mountains, nice weather,... Such a treat ! It's not so difficult, and it's nice to make a loop and come back by another trail !My favorite hike in Jasper, no doubt !"
"This was one of our favourite hikes in the Rockies. There is a short path you can take to walk to the glacier viewpoint, or you can do the full hike which leads up to some spectacular alpine views. If you do plan on taking the hike, have lots of water and proper footwear. There are views the entire hike and we saw a number of marmots at the Alpine viewpoint."
"but not for the fainted heart. Bring enough water and food just for the look out hike... worth it.
Access is very easy from the 93A off Jasper park entrance."
"I've never been near a glacier, so my review is that from the perspective of a giddy observer. The drive up to the glacier is curvy with many hairpin turns, so drive carefully (there were some speed demons tailing us, so we simply pulled into one of the pull-offs to let them pass). It was neat driving up such a steep driveway. The short hike to the glacier was nice and very easy so it is accessible for all types of hikers. But nothing compared to seeing the glacier. It is a bit sad learning about how much of the glacier has receded, but having the opportunity to view it and learn about human impact on it's disappearance only made me more reverent and confirmed to being more eco-friendly. There are signs indicating that the hike is done and to proceed means that you do it at your own risk...many people took that risk including us. Just be careful and respectful of the ice...don't get too close! As we were able to leave, we heard a loud sound similar to that of a jet plane, and turned around to witness a small avalanche! Mother nature telling us something, I suspect!"
I am a frequent visitor to Jasper and have hiked most trails this is an easy one and depending on time of year you will see snow . and some rare flowers. not to be missed
"This trail is covered in tarmac all the way, so flip-flop wearers should have no problems here. I have to smile when other reviewers write they ""hiked"" this trail when in fact it' s a walk in the park. To get the best out of the views and the atmosphere, get up early and try to get there before 9.30 a.m., before the tourist masses arrive. I can' t imagine that any bear in his right mind would want to scramble over the jagged rocks left and right of the trail, so you don' t need your pepper spray here. Keep your eyes open for marmots - we saw two. The drive through the forest to the parking lot is delightful (40km limit). The views of the sheer mountain sides and the glacier are truly ""awesome"" and ""to die for"" -ugh!"
"My husband and I hiked this yesterday. The road going in was smooth and paved (this must have been an update to previous reviews). The road is narrow and does weave back and forth, but it was not too bad even with a GMC truck:) We came to hike the Cavell meadows hike; sadly it is closed until mid July due to mud and wet. We still got to enjoy hiking up to Angel glacier point and numerous outlooks. Just stunning! Well worth the drive in anyways!FYI - dogs are not allowed on the Cavell meadow hike but they are on the other trails."
Drive to the Mt. Edith Cavell is wonderful. Road seems to be done recently and I had fun driving through thick forests. Nice hike to the glacier as well.
"Now that the recently paved road is actually open for the season you should take the narrow winding road up there. The trails are well maintained and not too difficult. There are benches along the hike for resting as the altitude is high. It can also get very cold near the mountain, so dress in layers and be sure to stay hydrated. The scenery is drop dead gorgeous! It is a supreme area for photographers and those interested in ""living glacial geology"". This is an area also known for grizzly bear sightings. They seem to appear in the mornings and evenings and it is a thrill to see one. Be very careful though, the grizzlies are extremely dangerous! Soon the wildflower meadows will be in full bloom. That alone is worth the visit. Maybe the BEST news...no tour busses with scurrying, disrespectful crowds."
"This is about as close as you can get to a glacier with very little effort. The drive up the mountain is slow, as the road is narrow with hairpin turns. However, it is paved, which many outdated tour books had not mentioned. From the parking lot it is a short hike to the glacier. It is a paved path with benches along the way if you get tired easily. Seeing the glacier so close was amazing, and the glacial lake was beautiful. Avalanches were happening as we were there, which was really neat. I actually preferred this to going on the glacier walk at the Columbia ice field, even tough we paid quite a lot for that tour, and this attraction is completely free."
"Edith Cavell was a heroine in WW I and was honoured by having her name given to the mountain which had a huge glacier on it in the form of an angel. This and many other glaciers are melting rapidly nowadays, so visit as many as you can, soon."
Wow! We drove up and I must say the road was a little rugged but well worth it. We saw the tip of the glacier and several little ponds left behind with ice sculptures in them. Not as crowded as some of the other spots. Don't miss it.
"We vistited in 2009 and 2013- the glacier melted tremendously, you cannot walk down to the lake anymore. Walk up the more strengous hike to Edith Cavell Meadows- great views as well and sometimes Grizzlies in the area, be aware. Less crowded than the short lake trail."
"Very scenic hike to the angel glacier. Our favorite part of the trip here was the drive through the forest region. While returning from the cavell pond, we saw two bears walking side by side in the middle of the road. We had to stop the car to let them move as they were oblivious to our car and the another minivan, the only traffic on the road. Seeing the bears so close also added to the reason of this being our most favorite trip in the jasper region."
"We took the scenic drive from Jasper to Lake Louise and stopped everywhere inbetween, but this was our favorite! The road up is smooth but it has many switchbacks, and could make a person sick, but very scenic nontheless! We didn't hike up to the top as there was so much more we wanted to see, but next time we will. Instead we hiked down to a little lake where we had lunch on the shore. Do not skip this beautiful place! It is very scenic and calming and untouched!"
"We took the (scenic and pretty) drive here from downtown Jasper and reaching the foot of the mountain was absolutely breathtaking. What a majestic beauty of a mountain!! Very worth the visit! We were not able to get out of the car much do to a swarm of mosquitos (where did those come from?) and no repellant, but we just weren't prepared on that front. The drive there/back has some beautiful sights, so be sure to keep an eye out."
"There is a statue of Edith Cavell, the British nurse executed by the Germans in Brussels during WW1, in St. Martins London, but the Canadians have topped that by naming this imposing mountain in her honour.A winding narrow road,with a couple of viewing stops, takes you to the parking area,which is not that large. We did it in late September- so could get crowded during the hight of the season. The good thing is that tourist buses can not come up the road. A short steep walk on a paved pathway takes to a viewing area for the Angel Glacier, a small lake and the debris of last break off from the glacier.A stark landscape with the clouds tumbling over the top of the mountain -nice views back a long the valley. Lots of great photo opportunities as you come up the road and when you have arrived at Mt.Edith CavellWould have loved to see the meadows in full bloom -but that is for another visit."
"The hike up to the Angel Glacier on Mount Edith Cavell near Jasper, Alberta is one of those experiences which takes only a few hours but remains in memory for decades.Once in the car park hike up to the main observation area, but then continue up over the rubble fields to the rear as if you intended to climb the glacier. You'll know when to veer off the trail and climb to the apex. Sitting on a rock up there with the iced wind on your face puts you in the same mental space as the glacier itself, and without coach access, you're assured of some measure of privacy to enjoy the feeling. Below the melt off glows in a startling shade of silty turquoise. Heaven."
"Quite a long and sometimes steep hike to get up to view this, but well worth it after you reach the viewing area! Not far out of Jasper (South). Very interesting to view."
This is a must see when in the park. The drive is amazing with some incredible viewing stops along the way. The hike to the viewing area for the glacier is not too strenuous and is well worth it!
"Take the road up to the car park it is a great road.
The angel glacier and other glaciers make great photos."
"The glaciers were amazing. We had wanted to visit here last year but as part of the ghost glacier had fallen, we couldn't It was worth the wait - it was great. We went on a cold day, it even started to snow while we were there but it was beautiful.The drive up is not for the faint hearted as the road is a little bendy but it is worth it."
The narrow twisty road up to the trail is lovely and scenic. A short uphill hike (10 min) and you get the view of the 2 glaciers with a semi-frozen lake below surrounded by huge majestic mountains. Absolutely beautiful.
"This is a must-do if you're headed up Jasper way. I have conducted coach tours for years up the Canadian Rockies but Mount Edith Cavell and the Angel Glacier was not on any itinerary.But there's a reason for this: The road is quite narrow and very twisty. Highway coaches are simply too big for the road. If you're driving an RV, you can do the drive- so long as it's not one of those huge affairs. If you are towing a trailer, leave it in the designated parking lot.Part-way up the road you will find yourself stopping to gasp at the Tonquin Valley. Take the pictures and continue up, right to the base of Mt. Edith Cavell. From the parking lot there is a 45-minute walk (there and back) with moderate elevation gain. Bear in mind that you are at a relatively high altitude so for those who are not fit it may seem like a challenge but take your time: there are benches to rest along the way and the view once you get to the viewing area is jaw-dropping.It feels a bit disorienting as there are two cliff faces perpendicular to each other that soar thousands of feet above your head. It feels like you are in a room yet the walls are hundreds of feet away so while your brain thinks you can reach out and touch the 'walls' every other sense tells you that you are a speck in this mountainous spectacle. It is indeed awe-inspiring.Much to my surprise, the full length of the road has just recently been repaved so it is a smooth, well marked road. The pathways are well maintained. Being there on October 1st I found very few people around but I imagine during the summer months it is quite busy. That said, it is still a must-do spot if you're looking for that quintessential Canadian Rockies experience, where the mountains tower over you, impeding passing clouds and touching the heavens above."
What a stunning mountain and glacier. The drive up is awesome and you get to park up right beside the mountain and glacier. It is that close. There are short trails to the viewpoint above the icebergs in the lake and a longer route through alpine meadows for a better view. It is a must see if you are in Jasper.
Mt Edith Cavell is a lovely place to visit. The road to it is very narrow and bendy. It is very cold up there but it is worth braving the up hill walk and the cold. The mountain itself is not that impressive but the board explaining how it got its name is interesting and the glacier by it is amazing. Angel Glacier is beautiful and even looks like an angel with wings. There is another glacier thing underneath the main one with a big frozen lake under it. sorry i dont know the technical name but it is very impressive.
"Mt. Edith Cavell was a last minute pick it is a little bit out of the town of Jasper and takes a little time to drive up the mountain, but it turned out to be one of my favorites. We took lunch and sat down and ate lunch at the bottom of the glacier with great views. Mt Edith Call turned out to be one of my top 2 places we visited during the whole week. You get so close to the glacier you can feel the temperature shift. Great spot"
By the time you have driven down the Icefield Parkway you might think you have seen enough glaciers for one holiday - but that would be a mistake if you didn't include a visit to Mount Edith Cavell on your trip to Jasper. The site is approx 16kms from Jasper. Make sure on your way up you stop and take a look at the small lake about 500 metres from the main car park - after a short walk of approx 100 metres off the road you get great views of the glacier over a beautiful turquoise lake!As for the glaciers - there are 1 of them to see but the most interesting feature of the visit is the information regarding the 2012 glacial avalanche - I will leave it to you to discover more but this definitely makes the trip worthwhile along with how close you can get to the toe of the glaciers.
"It's a beautiful drive up to Mt. Edith Cavell, and fascinating once you get there. A couple of years ago there was an avalanche that caused a flash flood. It wiped out part of the parking lot and a lot of the trail. It really made you think about the force of nature. Beautiful views and well worth the trip."
"There's no fee other than one for the Park. I had read about the avalanche of a little more than a year ago. That was frightening enough by itself. To be up there and see the destruction and the force of what occurred, I guarantee you that you will never take another Caution-Avalanche-Zone warning sign for granted again as long as you are in the Canadian Rockies."
This was a great hike. The mountain/glacier views were just spectacular. The view of the glacier at the top make the effort well worth it.
"Mt. Edith Cavell, Edith Cavell Glacier, Angel Glacier and a pond usually full of pieces of ice are all seen from the same site. Drive is a little out of the way from the road to Jasper, but is well worth the time spent to see the unusual sights. Go either early in the morning or later afternoon to avoid the crowds and traffic congestion at the parking lot at the end of the road. The lower trail no longer exists after a portion of Ghost Glacier dropped into the pond in front of Cavell Glacier in August 2012 and caused a mini tsunami which washed out the trail and a portion of the parking lot. The upper trail has more of an elevation gain and is a more strenuous hike. The trail also no longer goes down to the pond as there is a concern about falling ice from the glaciers above."
"It had hiking trails up the mountain for a way, but we just walked a little way to the stream. Interesting history of how it got its name."
"When driving in to the location you have to go up a very curvy long road that could be considered frightening by less experienced drivers. Personally I thought the drive was a lot of fun! Make sure that you go to the very end, because there are other hikes on your way up. Once you are at the end you can walk up a bit and get to the first viewing site. In order to do the longer hike to the meadows you have to back track a bit. The hike is uphill the whole way. I think you gain around 500m of elevation depending on which ending you want to see. We hiked to the second highest point that overlooked the glacier. On the way up their are plenty of small animals to see, most of them tamed by people feeding them (don't feed the animals...). One chipmunk even tried to bite my fiances shoelaces. You can climb all over the lower rocks for some great views as well. It took us about an hour and forty five minutes to get to the top and about 20 minutes to get down. Well worth the time and we are glad that we did it. Such beautiful views in every direction!"
"The hike to this glacier was about 45 minutes long, not strenuous or difficult but well worn and direct. The view was eye popping, the ice on the glacier had a blue hue to it. We saw a rock slide cascading down a waterfall while watching the glacier."
"Worth the drive and short walk just to view the glacier up close. If you are a hiker, definitely do the Path of the Glacier and Cavelle Meadows Trails. Get there early for the best light as the sun tops the nearby mountains. And as the sun warms the Angel glacier, you can see and hear chunks break off. Early also beats the crowds (NLT 0830)."
"Be sure to go here! It was a great side trip, great views on the climb to the glacier.The Mt. Cavell road was also very scenic."
First part of the easy hike to Angel Glacier is easy and you do get to see part of a glacier not too far from the viewpoint. 2nd part where you ascend to the 360 view is strenuous but achievable. I went in rainy weather which hampered some of the enjoyment. Wait for a sunny day to tackle this one. It is worth it once you get to the top. Bring plenty of water.
"It was a perfect day when we visited Mt. Edith Cavell. As you travel up the mountain road there are a lot of curves and switchbacks. We saw a car that had run off the edge of the road and a tow truck had to pull it back on the road so be careful on the curves. As you travel up the mountain you get some beautiful views. The road ends in a large parking lot that has a trail leading to a viewpoint. It takes only ten or fifteen minutes to get to the place where there is a wonderful view of the mountain and the Angel Glacier. A great place for pictures and we took a lot. As we left the viewing area we saw a small dusty trail that headed up a very rocky hill, winding around to the top of the hill. We took the trail which was the one that goes to Cavell Meadows. After about thirty minutes we came to a place where there was s slight fork in the trail with the right trail headed to a large ridge of small to medium boulders. We climbed the fifteen feet or so to where we were sitting on the rock pile overlooking the Angel Glacier and the small lake with ice bergs at the bottom of the glacier. We had lunch sitting on the rock pile ridge and got some beautiful pictures of the glacier and lake. We left feeling we had rested and lunched at a place we would remember for a long time. We then headed back down the winding trail to the main trail and the parking lot. A wonderful time in a most beautiful place and as we look back over our pictures, we wish we could go back next week. Go and enjoy Mt. Edith Cavell and the Angel Glacier."
"Edith Cavell has one of the best mountain views in Canadian Rockies. The trails around it are not hard and it is worth trying that of Angel glacier. The drive also has several hairpins, which needs some caution in driving."
This side trip was a spontaneous jerk of the wheel as we traveled along Hwy 93A. The hike up was doable for my 78 year old mother and we were rewarded with watching the glacier calving. Truly a site to behold.
"Mt. Cavell trail is not too far from the town of Jasper. The road to Mt. Cavell from 93A looks newly paved (Aug'03), but with frequent turns and limited view ahead it takes 20-30 minutes to get to the trailhead. There are two different trail routes to the top and we took the shorter one. Along the way we got down to the lake below the Angel Glacier (also reviewed). On my way up to the top, we saw some wild marmots. The wildflowers along the trail had brilliant colors. On the top what we saw mostly was still the glacier. On our way down, we heard several times cracking sound from the glacier. Listening carefully you might be able to hear them as well."
"It was a short and easy hike from the parking lot to see the Angel Glacier and worthwhile. The other hike to the Cavell meadows is a bit more uphill (with great views of the glacier) and we spent about 3 hours. The wildflowers weren't great (maybe they are better in July), so don't go especially for them in mid-August, but the hike was still enjoyable. A better place to see wildflowers is Mt. Revelstoke National Park."
"Loved the hike to this glacier. Short but picturesque. After the landslide last year, there are quite a bit of the glacier you can't really get to, but it was good nevertheless. One tip- take a sweater, it does get a little nippy out there."
"Mt.Edith Cavell is actually not so far from Jasper.It is only a less than 30 minute drive. When you get here, please take the hike down to Angel Glacier.It is about a 50 minute hike if you go all the way down to the glacier, but about 25, to the viewpoint. To the viewpoint should not be so strenuous, since I saw a lot of dads pushing kids strollers!! If you can only make it to the halfway to the viewpoint, it will make a difference. To give you an idea of the hike, I was there with my parents and my husband and I and mom chose to go all the way, but dad decided to stay and wait for us at the viewpoint, taking caution for his bad knee. I found this hike to the glacier much more interesting than the popular Columbia Icefields tour.This hike gives you more of an understanding and appreciation of glaciers. This hike was definitely a highlight of my vacation to the Canadian Rockies area, next to seeing wildlife!! So please take your time to come here, if you are in the area!!"
Great view of Mount Edith Cavell and Angel Glacier and some nice hiking. We hiked to Cavell Meadows which was full of flowers in July.
Took my fiance and 16 month old daughter here while on vacation. My legs are definitely burning after pushing a stroller up the higher trail but it was well worth it.
We hiked the Path if the Glaciers and then took the Mt Edith Cavell trail up to the meadows. It was a beautiful trail with the Angel Glacier in full view for most of the hike up. We even heard and saw some of the glacier breaking off. The wildflowers were lovely and we enjoyed the forest section also. Glad we made it all the way to the top!
"We have done this hike twice and both times suffered for days, but in a funny way. Our ""out of shape"" legs didn't like it very much but we would STILL do it again. We walked up to the meadows, awesome. Pretty steep though but well worth it. The view is incrediable."
This area of the Rockies has been reopened after the collapse of a glacier in 2012. It is not the easiest walk to do as the path is steep but at the top in the alpine like meadows you realise quickly the exertion was more than worth it.
"This whole review process started with a Tripadvisor question `What is your advice for visitors to Edmonton`. In short, if you don`t have a car, rent one a take a couple of days at Jasper, Alberta (three and a half hours away). This ride will take you into the middle of some of the most beautiful scenery in the world. It is well worth the dollars spent. Visit the National Park office in Jasper and they will give you enough ideas for several days worth of activity. Some of my favorites ... 1. drive up to Mount Edith Cavell (upper parking lot and hike up the glacial valley to the Cavell and Angel glaciers - 2 hours total unless you choose to picnic on the edge of the glacial lake); 2. visit Maligne Lake and hike up the Western slope - take good walking shoes and some bottled water - also a good place for a picnic lunch; 3. talk a walk at Maligne Canyon; ride the Shy Tram to a mountain top, stunning views; 4. have a beer on the sunny deck at the Jasper Park Lodge; 5. on your way back to Edmonton, drive down the Icefield Parkway, see Athabasca Glacier and exit at Saskatchewan Landing on the David Thompson highway back to Edmonton. This can all be done in two days. Enjoy! P.S., if you have more time it is not hard to use it up in the National Parks. Many more sights to see. Buy a Canadian Rockies - Altitude Superguide, a bargain and valuable guide as you travel - $20 (estimate)David"
Visiting Mount Edith Cavell was by far the highlight of our family trip to Jasper and Banff. The glacier lake is of a emerald green colour with the actual glacier wall at the far end of the lake. The beauty at the end of this hike is worth the drive - it is only a short 15/20 min walk once you reach the parking lot.. We walked up to the glacier lake and waterfall - I still get chills today from how beautiful this place was... I hope it never changes!
"Was in Jasper last year, and never got to see this site because of the glacier falling and flooding the area just 2 days earlier. They've done a good job of putting up signs explaining the glacier falling and giving history with pics of before and after. It's a short hike to it, and a beautiful site once you're there. It's all down hill when you're done and walking back :)"
"Worth the 14.5km of switchbacks to get to parking lot. Worth seeing both glaciers, especially nice were all the visible layers in the cavell glacier where it meets the water. Clamor over a few rocks to the waters edge. Did the hike up to the first lookout point in meadows, not real impressed so hiked back down same way. Talked to others on trail who did entire thing...was 50/50 if disappointed. Alpine meadows are nice but less spectacular than, for example, Grand Teton meadows, understandable with harsher environment. For comparison we consider the Parker Ridge hike to be a spectacular view and more worth the effort than the hike to the meadows."
"Due to the Ghost glacier completely collapsing into the pond in the early morning of August 2012, the lower paths to the pond are closed and completely devastated. A tsunami generated from the displacement of water/rocks/ice changed this landscape. I remember going there since I was a child and watching the area come back to life and change post glacier recession. We would hop over streams, cross wee bridges, and I was really looking foward to our toddler doing this too, but the area is now considered a danger zone and you are not recommended to walk the area in front/to the pond in case there are more glacier calving causing risk to your safety. Understandable, nature is a powerful force, but just to keep in mind when going re what to expect. Still a beautiful area and you can still hike the higher pathes, but cannot go to the pond directly. It was a good thing this had occurred during early morning when there was no one there. You can still see rock debris at the entrance to the parking lot heading down the road to see how far the damage extended."
"It's a steep but short climb to the base of Angels glacier from the parking lot. The frozen glacier has a color you've never seen beforw and if you stay long enough, you'll hear occasional rumblings from the ice patch... wondering if today is the day a big chunk of rock/ice decides to fall."
"Looking at the photos by other tourists, it is clear you need to be a hiker. There is very little reward for the 20 km of rough, narrow and winding road full of hairpin bends you need to travel to get there at 15-20 kph, some up to 40. This is not for nervous drivers. You can't see much on the way up because it is obscured by trees. We did not look at the Tonquin Valley trail which may have been easier.At the very end there is a paved car park, hole-in-the-ground toilets and a viewing area for the glacier. They are working on the picnic area going down to the lake, but the seats set out have been covered by a rock fall which makes it impossible to walk on.There is, however, an incredible view of the glacier at the base of Mt Edith Cavell."
"It's not that hard to reach the viewpoint for the glacier + the pond and viewpoint 1 and 2. A pair of proper hiking shoes and a pair of poles would be necessary if you want to go further. However, the first viewpoint will stun you more than enough."
"Make sure you watch the road, it winds back and forth as you climb up to the mountain. Worth the trip though!"
"it is an amazing experience to see how glaciers are melting and travel into a beautiful lake and then into our rivers! we also experienced a small avalanche, which apparently are common in summer."
"After driving through a windy road for about 30 minutes, we arrived to a fairly full parking lot. To arrive at the Angel (or Ghost) Glacier, there is about a 20 minute walk. To get closer to the lake and icebergs, there is a tricky 15 minute downhill walk through a rocky path, but it was well worth it! We spent more time here than another other sight on the parkway."
"Its a very twisty road to Mount edith cavell, but well worth it we saw several bears on our way up and down. Again the weather plays an important part on what you can and can't see. with this mountain it is often shrouded in mist at the top."
"If you're wandering along the Ice Fields Parkway, be sure to take the little jaunt off the road up to Mount Edith Cavell as it's worth the trip. You'll wander along a narrow road working your way up the mountain with a variety of switchbacks so do watch for oncoming traffic. The views along the way are breathtaking. Once at the parking spot, it's a short hike up to various outlooks to see glaciers, mountain peaks, and amazing views. A sudden rupture of a chunk of the glacier in 2012 caused a flash flood that has changed the landscape surrounding the parking area and it's interesting to read about how the area is constantly changing. This is raw, beautiful nature so please be respectful. There are a number of paved trails which help reduce the impact of foot traffic on the area -- please stick to the trails and be sure to pick up after yourself. This is a spot to be saved for generations to come."
"excellent bike road to the bottom of glassier on of the best I have been on, short walk up hill to lake of glassier , with amazing views , surrounded by mountains"
We hiked to the lake and glacier. The hike is not strenuous and worth the walk. Use caution walking down by the lake.
Short hike to see an unique glacier. Path is easy to follow and wide enough to allow people to pass one another.
Absolutely beautiful area and worth visiting if you get the chance. There is great hiking and the view alone is worth the drive up there.
"We went to the Cavell glacier in August 2012. The weather was first cloudy but with a lot of sunny spells. The road to the walk is 18 km with some switchbacks. The trail starts at the end of the road. The big parking lot was full at noon.so better plan a morning start. Already at the start you'll have a view to the great scenery of the glaciers hanging on mt Edith Cavell. The rocky trail of 30 minutes leads to the best place of Jasper np !!! At the right the beautiful Angel glacier above the stuning coulours of the Cavell glacier and the Cavell pond. At the left the ghost glacier,fallen only a week after our visite. You also can walk to to higher viewpoints. Don't miss this great wonder of nature! Time : 2 hours including a higher viewpoint - level : easy"
"We visited the Cavell last June on the advice of some locals. The drive up is STEEP and includes a number of super-tight switchbacks. This can make the drive down an interesting, if not scary adventure as well. Driving down in a lower gear made the trip to the bottom not so hair-raising for us. Once at the top, the trail to the glacier is bare, but you get some spectacular views of the mountainside. It feels like you are on top of the world up there!"
"This is such an interesting glacier. It hangs off the side of Mt. Edith Cavell and does resemble an angel. We have been here several times, but the first time I saw it was the most awe inspiring. You walk out of the parking lot and onto the trail, you over look an old glacier path. The area is just so wide open here, I cannot explain it. You then walk one of two trails (low trail or high trail) to the moraigne at the bottom of the glacier. You can walk all the way up to the foot of the glacier.It is tough to be see this one without weather messing it up. Jasper is not known for great weather."
"There is a basic trail that will take you closer to the Angel glacier, and worth the VERY short hike for some amazing photos. There is also another path, the Cavell Meadows hike that I did in July two years ago. We went on a rainy day but it was still worth it. The flowers in bloom that time of year were beautiful-a lot of plants I've never seen before. Bring a camera, because you'll be taking a TON of photos!"
We took several photos of the Mountain. A beautiful sight on the trip down from Jasper to Banff. There are some good views to be had of the mountain as you drive. South.
We walked the glacier trail and were astounded at the sights...so close to the glacier and the trickle of the water run off. Chunks of glacier in a pool at the bottom that you could touch. Fantastic picture opportunities. The drive up is breathtaking and chance to see Mama and cub at side of road.
"Fortunate to visit just before the closure. Took the easier trail to the Glacier and returned back the same way. The Glacier pond with ice bergs is serene, unique, and breathtakingly beautiful."
"The lovely, winding road to Edith Cavell will be closed for the foreseeable future due to the debris clean-up efforts. Don't plan on seeing anything here until at least 2013. I am in Jasper now and really wish it was open (I have been numerous times and it's a favorite). Wildflowers, glaciers, lakes and the awesomeness of nature."
I was in Banff and Jasper during the first two weeks of August and did many of the hiking trails.The most vivid and memorable trail was at Mt. Edith Cavell. You can go on the beginning trails which leads you to a beautiful pool of melted glacier ice. You can go back to the parking lot or continue to the more difficult hiking trails. It was worth the hike to continue to the top. Once at the top you had to walk on some trails covered with snow. The view was spectacular and breathtaking!Dina from Montreal
Nice mountain to hike around and a nice little fishing below. The most impressive mountain you see from Jasper.
"Due to an ice-fall, the Mt. Edith Cavell road is currently closed (as of August 2012).I'm not sure who to contact to check if it's been reopened, but you should ensure that it has been before planning it.That said, I've been told it's absolutely one of the things to do in Jasper."
Check out the peak as the sun sets from Jasper townsite. Then hike to Angel Glacier in the morning before the crowds arrive.
"This is a definite ""must-see"" -- if it's open. Two days after our visit the Ghost Glacier collapsed, turning the access road to Mt. Edith Cavell into a gushing stream. Luckily it happened in the night when there were no tourists.We witnessed a huge snow avalanche that was a precursor to the crash. I hope they will be able to open it again soon because it is a truly spectacular area."
Get a sandwich and go! This is a must- angel glacier is fabulous and you can hear and watch one avalanche after another in July. Very inspiring place. No need for a guided tour- there are plenty of people on the trails with you.
Almost didn't take this side trip up a winding road to see yet another fabulous view. So glad we did. The walk to the glacier pool follows a path along a little glscier feed stream. Pretty flowers and rock formations along the way. You see the glacier in the distance. Then all of a sudden the glacier pool appears. Blue/green with ice floating in it. Then it hits you how beautiful this is. I am afriad of heights so I took the valley path to the glacier. My daugeter took the ridge path. It took 20 minutes to get to the pool. And it was soo worth it.
The road from the main hiway can be a little challenging. Take it slow and you should be fine. If want to get close to the glacier you'll need to hike up a ways. It is alot cooler up at Mt. Edith than down in the valley be prepared for rain/snow/mud.
"There's not much adverstising about this place, but once you are there, you start a trail which, step by step, reval all the beauty. The place ends in a Glacier. In our case we could even stay on foot in the small peaces (not too small) of the ice, like the movie Ice Age. The best is that it's totally free."
Yes visit this mountain and its lake. A slow road from the through route and winding to get there but worth the trip. Be prepared to walk to the lake thats the best part.
The road up to the parking area was easy. Trails in the immediate area were tarmacced for easy access to view Angel Glacier which is awesome. Trails up to the alpine meadows were well defined but rougher. Signposting was good. Flowers were abundant and the variety was amazing. We got caught in a storm - hail and torrential rain and although we had waterproofs we got cold and wet. I'd advise carrying waterproofs and fleece even if it's a hot day. The weather changes so quickly up there!!
"The hike is moderate with some elevation, yet manageable even for family with small kids like us (our younger son is 2.5). It is a loop trail and you would pass by Angel Glacier before seeing the lake. The kids particularly love the stone throwing as there are many blocks of ice floating on the lake to aim for.Needless to say, the view is just magnificent beyond words. If you can only do one thing in Jasper, do this one !"
"Mountains and glaciers abound! Here's an opportunity to come face to face with both in a short, easy hike!"
"beautiful place, but a lot of mosquitos. The hike was not bad at all we did do it backwards though, along the river then up the hill."
"Provides a moderate hike (in a loop) with lovely views.
Bit crowded and a bit of a drive, but worth it for the scenery."
"Leisurely Walk, Fantastic Views of both glaciers and lake with icebergs. A forest is growing on the base of the valley were the glaciers ave retreated so a place you can visit many times to see its progress. limited parking available"
You have to walk to the ice lake - out of this world. We were joined for lunch by a couple of chipmunks!
"We hiked back to Angel Glacier around 9pm and it was so quiet and serene with ice chunks floating in the lake below the glacier. Be sure to wear your bug spray! Anywhere you go in the National Parks, the mosquitos were big and hungry!! A porcupine was out for his evening stroll when we got back. The photos are poor due to it being 10pm, but encounter was great!"
"The dirve up to the parking is allready great.
We took a short loop walking tour to the glacier at mount edit cavell.
We were there at 5pm and there where not many other guests.
Great nature atmosphere"
The area is somewhat remote. On the way over we saw black bears scaling trees with amazing ease. We drove further up a steep curvy road. We eventually ended up at a large parking lot and the beginning of a trail. We took the shorter easy loop trail. We reached a small glacier pool draining from a small retreating glacier. You may need a sweater near the lake.
"Not a visit on main tourist run but not to be missed.The drive up is interesting but well worth it with a short 10 minute walk to base of glacier and the site og glacier lake with Mt Cavell being behind.Angel Glacier was making cracking noises when we were there as if about to have an avalaunch but we did not see a fall although could have been up out of sight on top of the icefield.The lake in front of the glacier is interersting and unusual, well worth a photo and even some Dutch tourists got undressed and into the lake to pose on top of the small icebergs in the lake!--as you would expect, very cold they said"
Opportunity to touch the toe of a glacier. Great to hike up opposite it if the weather is clear. Loads of parking a nd washrooms. Earlier in the day is best before the crowds
"The meadows hike, which we had also hoped to do, was closed as there was still snow on it.
This was a great hike with wonderful views in all directions."
"Do this! If you can hike short distances, the view at the end of the trail is spectacular and it was raining when we were hiking!First off, we turned onto the room to Mt Edith Cavell and a mama black bear and her two cubs sauntered across the road. We sat and watched them for a while. They were so close! Then, we continued up the road. Once we got to the end of the road, it started to rain. I had to change my clothes, because it was colder than I anticipated. There are porta-potties up there for you to use, if needed.We started on the hike and took the right path to the end. It seems like a nice trail - pretty views up ahead, but when you get to the end and see the lake and the iceberg, you just have to stop and look. We heard some cracking and saw a little ice falling down the mountain. It was an amazing experience! I loved it and so did my 3 teenage boys."
"I was expecting a hike but what was offered was a good walk, maybe because we were in a organized tour ( old people). But the place is beautiful and worth the visit."
"The Angel Glacier (and the Ghost Glacier) are very beautiful, and so is the easy trail leading to them, and the steep road leading to the mountain.Opens only in late June, and the upper trail only late July(!) – verify conditions in advance. In the afternoon you may hear the Ice cracking, and if you are lucky even to see parts of it breaking (be careful and stay on trails!).(If you’ve found this review helpful, you can let me and others know it by clicking the green Yes below)"
Wonderful scenery two glaciers and an easy walk all make for a great excursion.
"One of our favorite place of visit. Easy hike to the lake and view the mountain and Angel glacier. The floating ice was quite unique in structure. Kids brought them out to build ice castles. Saw mini-avalenches from the mountain. Looked small, but sounded loud! Saw a black bear on the way down to Jasper too!"
A short walk from the car park brings you to beautiful scenery and some great photo opportunities. Worth the little effort it takes.
"I have been under Mt. Edith Cavell this July 2012 and it was my first fvisit there. It is definitelly the best side of the Jasper NP. You will see the moving glacier, smaller but definitelly better and closer then the Columbia one on the border between Jasper and Banff.This one has amazing glacier lake just below, we saw some small avalanches as well.Take the road off the main highway, you will see signs for Mt. Edith Cavell from the Hghwy. Take long curvy road up the hill, drive slow, it is narrow nice scenic road. When arrived to parking lot, just take the short trail off the parking lot and see the wild nature on your own at its best!Hurry up the glacier is shrinking very fast every year.Enjoy!"
We enjoyed the hike at Mt Edith Clavel across the mountain meadows. The wildflowers were in bloom to add to the enjoyment. The hike to the glacier is easy on nearly level terrain.
The hiking trail to the base of the glacier is an easy walk and provides endless vistas.
"As you begin the short hike, you may wonder if it's just another hike to another glacier. Then you round the bend and understand why you came all the way to Canada to see all that the Canadian Rockies have to offer. Plan to spend extra time here just sitting on a rock and admiring the view. Wait awhile and you may see/hear an avalanche above. So awesome! Take your binoculars so you can really observe all of the areas around you."
"The drive up was interesting, and the views and walsk at the top were stunning"
The trail was really short and easy. There are avalanches every 5 minutes which was really awesome. We went off the trail to climb up on the way back and we saw a mother grizzly bear with two new born cubs. It was really an exciting hike!
"This trip was a must see on our list while in Jasper. Sadly the day we had allotted (our 2nd and last full day in Jasper) it was teeming rain. Undaunted we headed up the mountain. Walking boots, wet weather gear and umbrellas we set off and as had been previously suggested took the lower path to the right - much the better route. No probs reading the interpretive signage the 'wrong' way. The views were the same if one looks both ways. We missed the likely avalanche which was waiting to happen above Cavell glacier, but everything else was astonishingly beautiful. It was also sad (for us) that the meadows trail was still closed, but this is an environment that needs as much protection as it can get - Mother Nature at her best. Loved it. Sturdy shoes are advised."
Hiked through the snow to get to the glacier. Beautiful. Saw bears on the drive. Our best day in Jasper.
"It is rare that one can drive up into the high altitude alpine environments, but one can drive to alpine at Mt. Edith Cavell. When we were there the mountain glaciers were calving ice that crashed into the valley below. The sound and fury was amazing. I was aghast at the young people that were playing in the icefall area while ice blocks the size of trucks had recently fallen off the hanging glaciers high above. The park staff had abundant signs warning of the danger, but a few people ignored the signs and put themselves in mortal danger. This is a superb natural environment, but one must dress appropriately for high, cold altitudes and be aware of the natural dangers."
Mt. Edith Cavell is stunning to see!!! you can explore and walk right up to the glacier ponds. We saw real avalanches happening before our eyes!
"We took the Mount Edith Cavell Tour with our Guide Trish. The mountain had just opened the day before. We were provided with boots and cleats if needed.Our guide was quite knowledgeable as she used to work for the Park Services.The hike is an easy trail and could have easily been done on our own. The sights are gorgeous, but it was still filled with snow during our trip there in the middle of June. The lake was just beginning to thaw and we even managed to see a small avalanche.I would recommend going here, either on your own or with a tour guide. Make sure you dress in layers though. When we first got there it was raining and very, very cold 7C. When the sun decided to finally show it's face, it warmed up immensely and we were actually sweating. When we were leaving, you could feel the change in temperature again and it was cooling down."
"Yes. Avalanche! Albeit a small one (hence I called it mini-avalanche). It happened at half way point of Glacier loop where there was a lake (still partially frozen late June). Once in while there was rumbling noise and snow was falling from the mountain behind to the lake. It's a wonderful experience and it's safe too (as long as you don't go off the path to the other side of the lake).The road up to Mt. Edith Cavell is winding and steep (in some sections) but it's well maintained. Any experienced driver should have no problem navigating it. View along the way was nice too. The road closes during winter months so check before you go there. Once you reach Mt. Edith Cavell, try to allocate time to hike Glacier loop. It's fairly easy walk and offers great views. An hour should be plenty.Tip: consider visiting Mt. Edith Cavell and Athabasca Falls in one trip. They are in the same direction and not far from each other."
"You get right to the heart of a mountain coming here...it's a lovely place. Be prepared with stout shoes, you get to walk in deep snow !! the glacier is in the shape of an angel, as was the woman the mountain is named after."
"The Glacier loop is easy and has great views. Meadows trail was still closed as of late June 2012.Angel glacier is impressive (more so than the ice fields, because you get a sense of the depth of a glacier) and should be seen before it completely recedes. We saw and heard (sounds like thunder) some cracks in the ""wings"" of the glacier while we were there.As other reviewers have noted, it's a bit of a drive on a narrow mountain road with switchbacks---but totally worth it!"
"A short mountain drive on a small, but new road opens grand views and ends at a parking area. It's a bit challenging to drive here with campers. From the parking two hiking routes are available. The longer Meadows trail was still closed in June due to snow. The Glacier Loop (45 min walk, partially tarmac and partially rough terrain, with some elevation on high altitude which makes breathing harder) was open and during the walk you see a grand mountain cliff towering above you with on top the Angel glacier. Small avalanches occur and cause thundering sounds echoing through the valley. The trail leads to meltwater ponds. It's truely an unique landscape which is not something one can view everywhere where there are mountains and snow. The grandness of it all makes you fill puny. No picture or video of the area can provide the same experience. Defintely the number 1 place to visit in Jasper."
"Beautiful mountain, where you can watch a rather impressive glacier fall into an emerald green lake. Good chance you'll see some marmots and sheep as well. Plan to spend at least a few hours here."
"We've been to Jasper National Park numerous times, but never been here until now. We had to wonder how we could have overlooked such a gem. Although it's quite the drive to get there (about 20 km of switchbacks), it was well worth the trip. The hike up to the meadow where the glacier is at the bottom of the mountain was fairly easy, but the scene before us was unreal. The children along with our friends enjoyed the opportunity to explore the ice chunks from the Angel Glacier (some of the chunks were as big as a house). We even witnessed a mini-avalanche off the mountain. The scenery was serene and incredible. It's a place we'd come back to visit it again."
Its a bit of a drive but well worth it. Once you get there make sure to take a pack with some water and what not. Remeber you are in the back country so weather can come fast.
If the weather is fair - you are in for a great hike up to the meadows - July/August is best when the flowers bloom and the Angel Glacier at any angle is well worth seeing
We visited in September and the weather was very changeable so be prepared for any conditions! Great place to visit though with excellent hikes
"We do this hike with our kids at least a few times every year, it always seems to change a little, and rain or shine, the beauty of this area is unparallelled. This is a nice easy hike for families with small children, my kids have been doing this hike since they were a year and a half old. Layer up because the weather changes very rapidly."
"ice on the glacier lake, serentiy, easy hike....get there early for parking"
"A small bus picked us up at our hotel. A very friendly guide told us the story of Edith Cavell (a nurse martyred during the war). There is a beautiful drive up to the trail-head. The trail is relatively easy, but the altitude makes it harder. At the end of the trail there is a lake and a small glacier. The trail down is different than the one you came up on."
"This definitely was the highlight of our visit to Jasper National Park. We walked the path on the left which was a great deal uphill, but the views were spectacular and so worth it. Cavell Lake with icebergs in it was super! Being is close to the glacier was awesome. Our return through the meadow also beautiful. This was so wonderful we didn't have an interest to stop at the icefields."
"Nice hike up to the Cavell Meadow. Most of the wild flowers, unfortunately, had welted during the first week of September."
"Years ago the road up was much narrower and there was a tea house you could visit on the colder days. Why they got rid of the tea house is still a mystery. I've climbed Edith Cavell three times (all during the summer) in order to appreciate her you need to get out of your car and hike. I recommend taking the trail up to the meadows where you can begin to see the massive scale and angle of the the face of the mountain itself. You are looking at over one vertical mile of pure mountain, on rainy days you can watch the water & snow cascade off the face in torrents. The person the mountain was named after was a nurse in France during WW1, she is know for helping injured allied soldiers for which she was later executed for.Mt. Edith Cavell is not only a beautiful mountain to look at she is one of the most majestic mountains in the area to hike around or given the opportunity - to climb."
Definitley put this on your itinary - we had a fabulous walk here up to angel glacier and above - the views from the highesrt scree slope (above the main walking route ending) are stunning 360 degree veiws - well worth the effort
"We visited Jasper as part of our trip to Canadian Rocky during August 2011.Mt Edith Cavell is about 40 minutes drive out of Jasper off 93A, turn right onto Cavell Road, a narrow and windy route and not suitable for large RV. On the day we went there the weather was cloudy, misty and drizzling and very cold. From the car park we walked through glacier moraine valley for a fair distance and weren’t sure what to expect and how far we needed to walk. We were becoming disillusioned as we were not able to see much due to poor visibility. We asked a couple returning “is there anything to see?” They told us, with a wide smile, “walk for another five minutes and the suffering of cold, rainy weather will be forgotten when you see the beautiful lake with floating ice all over”. That really cheered us up and we kept on going.After a few minutes we saw the amazing view of Mt Edith Cavell, Angel glacier and the surreal lake with turquoise blue water full of floating icebergs; which resembled floating candles in a large bowl. We stood there and thought WOW, what a place. Mt Edith Cavell looked very intimidating from near the lake/pond as it was almost towering over us. We could see and hear thunderous noise of icebergs calve off and avalanches coming down from the top and falling on Cavell glaciers at the bottom and into Cavell Pond! We maintained a safe distance but went quite close to the Cavell glaciers. The Angel glacier on the right was hanging from the top as if a chunk of icebergs will break off at any time. We were able to see the cracks of the crevasses clearly. It was simply amazing. Two days later when the weather was sunny with blue sky, we went back to Mt Edith Cavell again for more of the same and for excellent photo opportunity. It was an amazing experience that we will never forget. Tip: On a good sunny day it can become very crowded. Therefore be there before 10am or after 3pm to avoid the crowd"
"The Mountain is an iconic image of jasper and well worth a trip out to see it in more detail. if you take the walk out to the lake please avoid the temptation to get under the overhanging glacier, a huge piece broke of and shattered on the rocks whilst we were their, if anyone had been underneath it they would have been killed for sure, lots of people who were close by (ignoring the warning signs) had a lucky escape."
"It is an AWESOME place. It had exceeded all our expectations. You can go so close of the glacier, it is spectacular. We decided not to go on the Columbia glacier with Icefield centre because we were not sure that it was a good value for money. After having been on Mt Edith, we didn't regret our choice. This place should be in the top 5 places to be visited."
"Over thanksgiving I went out to Jasper to visit my father. We had been to Jasper before but never stopped at the base of Mount Edith Cavell where the Angel Glacier flows down to glacier pool. From the parking lot it doesn't seem like much, but follow the trail down to the pool...it really is worth it. No camera can come close to capturing how tiny you feel next to the giants around you. Enjoy!"
"This is a great hike. You can either do the shorter route just to the glacier and sit near the glacier and listen to the ice crack, or you can hike up through the meadows and see the spectacular display of flowers when they are in bloom. We were here in September and the weather was spectacular although most of the flowers were already done blooming."
"Visiting Mt Edith Cavell and the glaciers far surpassed my expectations. We arrived early (8 am) and were the only people there. I think the solitude really enhanced the experience of viewing the glaciers. It was cold, but the silence allowed us to listen to the cracking of ice. We started with the Glacier trail, with views of the nearby Angel Glacier. We really enjoyed seeing the Edith Cavell glacier, lake, and icebergs. Very, very cool. We then did the hike to the Edith Cavell Meadows. If you don't have enough time for the entire loop, taking the less steep right side to the first two overlooks gives the most bang for the buck (and some amazing views of the glaciers). We continued the loop, which was somewhat treacherous with ice and snow on the path. Very beautiful panoramic views at the top. We did hear the roar of part of the glacier breaking off. This was a very memorable and beautiful hike."
"Great trail, but bring bug repellant. Take the trail to head towards the Cavelle Meadows. You’ll have to take the windy road all the way to get to the trail head. We walked 0.8+0.3+1.5+0.8 km to get to the Meadows which were atop a hill and were beautiful! We encountered lots of marmots along the way, so if you missed them at the Whistler’s Mountain, you’re sure to see them hiding among the rocks on your trail to the Meadows! You’ll get a great view of the Angel Glacier too, and will see parts of the ice floating in a lake next to the trail. Beware of the bugs. Waving them off is pretty exhausting!"
"We did the double loop trail to include the Path of the Glacier Loop and the Cavell Meadows Trail. This trail and map are included in the free Jasper National Park Day Hiking Guide from the Jasper Visitor Center. We were the first on the trail at 7:40 a.m. We got great views of Angel Glacier from the Cavell Meadows Trail. If you don't want to do the entire loop, just walk until you get the photo op you want, then turn back when you desire. There were only a sprinkling of wildflowers still on the Cavell Meadows Trail, but also many western anemone seed heads. We saw marmots among the rocks on the Cavell Meadows Trail overlooking the Angel Glacier. We did not make it to the upper most viewpoint on the Cavell Meadows Trail. This spur trail is extremely steep and slick! We got to the third marker (the first marker is just a pole, which probably used to have a yellow marker; second and third poles had the yellow markers). Later I was mad at myself for not going further to the upper viewpoint since we met a man that said he had been able to spot Caribou from up there in the past. We spent 4 hours, 20 minutes on these trails (including our stop for lunch). We hiked about 4.6 miles (7.4 km). If you need a gentle approach to Angel Glacier be sure to take the Right portion of the Path of the Glacier loop since it has less uphill. This was definitely one of our favorite areas! We really liked it better than Athabasca Glacier."
Wasn't sure this would be worth the trip to get there... and it surpassed my expectations!! I'd go here before I'd go to the Columbia Icefields!! Be sure to take your time along the road-- you'll miss to much if you don't. The Amethyst Lakes were amazingly beautiful. Pack your lunch and spend a few hours here!! Good hike and worth it.
"It's a wonderful one and even the mountain roads leading to the attraction with HAIRPIN vends are wonderful.. Couple of picnic tables are available. A Nice view and wonderful spot for kIds to enjoy after a 30 mins, walk .. Good One."
"Expected to see this great mountain from a good vantage point that would be good for taking pictures from a far.What we didn't expect was to be basically at the base of the mountain and so close you could see all the details. Glacier, waterfalls, snow pack, rock formations, etc.There were 2 trails that would lead you to different vantage points to better view the mountain and all its surroundings, and although we did walk a small distance on the trails, we weren't prepared for any lengthy excursions. But we didn't need to travel far to view what we did. What a sight!The travel up to the mountain is an experience in its own. To give you an idea, at the turn to head up to the mountain off of HWY 93A there is a parking lot for your trailers. Hair pin turns, steep climbs and narrow road make it interesting in a vehicle on its own. The road itself was outstanding. New pavement, well marked and as smooth as a baby's bottom.Take our word...it was an unexpected surprise and worth the travel. It was the hi-light of our trip to Jasper.Happy Travels!!"
"This is one of my favorite places in the Canadian Rockies. I have been there more than 10 times and every time it amazes me. However, when i was there on Aug 12th, 2011, i have witnessed a big chunk of ice from the lower glacier into the lake in front... creating a mini tsuiami.The Drive:Driving to Mt. EC is fun and advanturous. You start at the bottom of the hill with tight swtichback and steep roads and you wind through the twining narrow along through old growth forest. This road used to be in bad shape but the good people at Parks Canada repaved the whole road. Now the ride is smooth and fun. I suggest to get there before lunch as the parking lot gets very full in the late morning and afternoon. The walk/hike.Once at the parking lot, there ar two ways to get to the same destination. The right hand path is flatter and you explore the aftermath of glacial processes. The left hand path takes you to the top of the lateral moraine which gives you a stunning view of the valley and the lake. I suggest you take different route going to and from the lake. The glaciers and the lake there are two glaciers at Mt. EC, Angel Glaciers which hangs over top and a bottom glacier which half of it is in contact with the glacial lake. I suggest to go as soon as the road re-opens from the winter months as the warming temperatures can increase your chance of witnessing ice breaking off into the lake or even avalache. There is a small cave at the bottom of the angel glacier but i suggest you not to go in since avalache can happen without much warning. Overall:you can easily spent 3 hours at this location so plan your day accordingly. The weather can change very rapidly. I was there once in August and IT SNOWED..."
Visiting this area was one of the highlights of our trip. It was late in the day and the crowd was thinning out. The view of the glacier; Mt. Edith Clavell and the lake was spectacular. You can walk down all the way to the water (need to walk across lots of rocks) and you can walk close to the toe of the glacier. There was an ice cave that was interesting to see but I would not recommend going into it (although some people were doing that). The trail to the meadows was uphill and not something to do when you are tired but worth it for the views. Requires some effort to get to and a little off the beaten track but a must-see if in the Jasper area.
NEVER MISS IT. We had a long tough drive and we wanted to drive back when we were just a few miles away but took the courage to go. Initially my sister and myself went on the left steep path. It was anything beyond our imagination. The we came back and went back with our parents on the right path which is not steep. we also had a 9 month old with us. It is the best place I have visited in my entire life.
endless thanks to whoever posted the suggestion to walk to the right- the 'wrong' way on the path. going to 'correct way takes you up a steep path. Going to the right leads you on a low flat path directly to the glacier. thanks!
Visited July 29. Witnessed the most impressive natural event I have seen. Not only did we see part of the angel glacier break away and plunge a few thousand feet to the valley floor but then 10 minutes later a lower part of the other glacier wall broke away and fell into the lake below creating waves on the shore of the glacier lake. Re walk up from the car park us steep at times but my 6 yr old managed ok and was it worth. Do not muss thus wonderful location
"After a drive up a twisting, paved mountain road off of Highway 93A, we came to a parking lot. From there we walked along a trail (one can take a circular route which goes uphill half of the way, or go both ways on a more level trail) to the base of the mountain. A rock wall covered in snow and glacier ice goes straight up in front of you with a turquoise glacial pond at the base. There are mini icebergs floating on the pond. Looking to the right one sees Angel glacier and Angel Falls. The whole area is covered with large rocks that have been deposited by the receding glacial ice and many alpine plants are gaining a foothold. The experience of seeing all this up close, and wandering through it for an hour or two was just wonderful."
"awesome scenery. rocky backdrop, glaciers, snowfall.
hike to lake short and moderately easy.
hike to Cavell Meadows (it had just opened) moderately steep and rocky. need to be surefooted; we turned back after going halfway."
"Mount Edith Cavell carpark is reached by a 13-mile narrow, winding mountain road - so drive slowly and carefully. Fortunately the road has been completely rebuilt and resurfaced in the last year and it isn't a bumpy drive. From the car park take the left path - this is a steep climb but gives you a breathtaking approach to the glaciers. The hanging glaciers are fascinating to view, we saw a dozen snow avalanches from the mountain in an hour and half - obviously June is the best season as the first warmth of the year reaches the snow surfaces. And you can get close up to ice blocks on the partially frozen lake - but be careful where you step. We could have stayed longer. As you move from the carpark to the glacier the temperature drops significantly so this is a classic case of being prepared with layers of clothing. This was one the best highlights of our viisit to the Rockies and shouldn't be missed."
"I visited mount edith late june with my family. It was a cloudy day, and snowed a bit! my family all come to conclusion that this was more fun than the columbia icefield expereince, as we were free to explore and be close to the glaciers. The drive up to the mountain was winding with scary turns. make sure to be careful driving up; the drive up will take you about 20-30min. Also, be sure to bring a coat, as weather could change very easily up the mountain."
"A quick drive up a side road in Jasper NP takes you to this site. You have to hike up a trail for the best views of glaciers and the mountain, but we heard and saw an avalanche spilling down a cliff across the canyon from the parking lot. We saw another one about 20 minutes later from up the trail. The hanging glacier apparently loses snow from on top of the ice, then it plunges over tall cliffs and looks like a waterfall. The trail gets quite steep and not everyone decided to climb it, but you can see the beautiful mountain and glaciers without going the distance."
"The Mt. Edith Cavel visit was a real highlight for us and a 'must-see'. We actually went up twice: once in the evening and again in the morning a couple of days later as we started off down the Parkway towards Banff.The evening visit was on a whim and quite late in the evening. I was a bit worried about losing the light, and it was quite cold and we weren't dressed for it, so we didn't get past the parking lot. However the views in the evening light were spectacular as the lot is on the west side, so the light was behind us shining on the face of Mt. Edith Cavel and the glaciers. There were maybe three cars in the parking lot.After talking to someone in the campground about the short loop to go up to the little lake at the base of the glacier, we were convinced to return and do the 1 km trail. We went up in the morning, and the first thing I noticed was that everything was in shade and the sun was coming up behind the peak. The second thing I noticed was the absolute ZOO of the crowds. Cars and people everywhere.It was still spectacular though and definitely worth taking the time to go up the trail. We did the out and back along the flat trail rather than going up and over the hill, although I imagine that the views across to the glacier and the lake are pretty good from the top of the hill."
"We just returned from a week-long trip to Banff and Jasper with our teenage son. I am so thankful I saw the reviews about Mount Edith Cavell, or we might have missed seeing the absolutely spectacular Angel and Cavell glaciers. We stopped at the far more well-known Colombia Icefields on the Icefields Parkway, and while the scenery was beautiful, we kind of felt like we were seeing a giant white field of snow surrounded by mountains. The geology, layers of ice, mini-snow avalanches (2 in our 2 hours there, both at a safe distance), half-frozen lake, and numerous formations were far more interesting at Mount Edith Cavell. We were all entranced.Note: When you park in the visitors' lot, the sign says to go left for the Path of the Glacier Trail. That leads you on an upward path for perhaps 15 minutes before you descent toward the glaciers. If you take the path to the right, you also get there via a much-easier, largely flat trail. Don't miss this!"
"Mt. Edith Cavell is one of my favourite places in Jasper National Park, one I would recommend as an absolute ""do not miss""! You can just drive up the road, stopping at the Astoria River look-out and then at the viewing area at the end of the road, or you can do a short walk (about 2 km, the Path of the Glacier Trail) or a longer hike to beautiful subalpine meadows and a ridge above treeline (the 8 km Cavell Meadows trail). The views of the mountain and the Angel Glacier are truly stunning, and I have often heard rockfall or seen small avalanches. The history of Edith Cavell, a British WW1 nurse, is fascinating and if you are interested in knowing more about her than just the small amount of information posted on the interpretive panels, there are books available at Jasper bookstores (such as the Friends of Jasper shop in the Visitor Information Centre).I make sure to hike the Cavell Meadows trail at least once each summer and the photos I've included are from some of the times I have been there."
"Drive up a winding road and it is a short walk to the lake. It was a rainy day, but it was worth braving the rain - the sight was absolutely stunning. Sheer wall of rock on one side and then the floating icebergs on the icy blue lake.When the fog cleared for a few minutes,we were also lucky enough to see the Angel Glacier right before our eyes at the edge of the lake on the other side."
"We drove up the road on our way to Jasper... the road was kinda windy and made me a bit nauseous with all the twists and turns. construction was apparently finished recently and it looked brand new. I was hoping the drive itself would be scenic but there was not much to look at except trees. But when you get to the end - oh my! easily one of the most beautiful places on earth!!! We didn't get a chance to hike it because we were rushed and it began to rain, but we are planning on going again. It had a lovely creek/river... glaciers on the mountains and beautiful grassy knolls... I can't wait to go back. It was unbelievably beautiful, well worth the drive... can't wait to go again. The parks guide mentions that this particular road is closed during winter (but you can cross country ski it... it's quite a ways though.)"
"This set of hikes, the one that goes to the Angel Glacier and the pond below it ... and the Cavell Meadows made for a beautiful afternoon for us. The first can be done in an hour and requires no hiking stamina ... it's mostly paved. The Cavell Meadows hike is definitely a lot of up in a hurry, but takes you through wonderful meadows filled with flowers - at least when we were there in early August. Just a great hike! By the way, if you're wondering what our favorite hike was it was in Banff NP - Plain of the Six Glaciers. I put up a photo web album of our whole trip, with captions and the pictures that correspond with Mt. Edith Cavell are #154-166.. There are pictures of both hikes. Go to Picasaweb.google.com/mjneenan, if interested and let me know if you have any questions."
"SKipping this is like going to the grand canyon and not looking down. Need I say more?This was the single most breathtaking hike we took in 15 days. ONly 1 mile from the parking lot-- just one long hill before you see the most wondrous things. Ice caves, icebergs, hanging glaciers. There are no hikes I know of to show you so much in such a short distance. Do not, repeat, do not mis this hike."
"We hiked Mount Edith Cavell the first week of August 2009. This was the best hike we did the entire week. We noticed several hikers well into their 70s (or 80s), yet you need to be in shape. The beginning is an easy loop along the glacier basin. Hike right up to the lake formed by the melting glacier. Then hike up the mountain (take the right path when given a choice), and be able to look across to the top of the glacier. Wildflowers were everywhere. Get there before 10am, or parking in the lot can be a problem. Pick a parking spot where you won't get boxed in by subsequent cars."
"We touched down in Edmonton at 8:30 am, pick-up our rental car, and headed towards Jasper. After the 5 hour drive (with stops) we were in Jasper, and then quickly checked-in. We figured we had about 3 hours before the kids would get tired from their jet-lag, and wanted to pack as much in as possible. We decided to go to Mt. Edit Cavell, which is about a 1/2 hour drive from the town of Jasper. Out of all the sights in Jasper/Banff, this is the one the kids like the best....touching the icebergs, seeing the waterfalls, hearing the avalanches off the glacier. There is a circular route taking you to the cavell and and back. The path on the left takes you to a higher elevation before decending to the cavell. The path on the way back is more flat. We were pretty tired by the end of it, and if we had to do it again, would only take the flat path...it was much less physically demanding. A great site to go to!"
"We thought that Mt. Edith Cavell would be just another mountain. How wrong we were. Despite the arduous drive and sometimes steep climb, the wonder that awaited us at the end was incredible. I do not want to spoil it for anyone, so I will just say that what we saw at the end was magnificent, stunning, and completely unexpected."
"The hike to the lake and Angel Glacier is easy and scenic. We started hiking at 7:00 am and we were the only people on the trail and the only people at the lake for a good 30 minutes. On our way back to the parking lot we passed by several groups coming in so if you want to be alone, go early!! It was AWESOME to be there all alone. The giant icebergs floating on the beatiful crystal blue lake with Angel Glacier hanging on to the cliff above... all in complete silence... was a surreal experience. We played on the big icebergs, hiked right up to the bottom of the glacier, and hiked in to the cave as far as we dared (which looking back probably wasn't the smartest thing to do). We ended up spending over an hour at the lake. It's a bit out of the way to get there but I would highly recommend going to Mt. Edith Cavell."
"The road is windy and steep...but what a wonderful reward at the end of it. We found the scenery simply stunning, so peaceful and the different colours were amazing. An absolute must see if you are in the area."
"This was one of the best places we went to during our short trip to both Jasper and Banff. The road to get there is pretty long and windy, but no more than any other mountain road. The hike is steep if you go to the left and fairly flat to the right, but together make a nice loop. The lake was the high point for us. There are ice floes that have just broken from the glaciers bobbing around, and a few pieces close enough to the shore to pick up. Angel glacier clings to the cliffs directly above the lake. When we were there, we walked up the toe of the glacier to get to an ice cave. I know all the dangers associated with the ice caves, and I know you're supposed to stay far away, but they are so amazing inside, even just from the mouth of the cave. We walked back to the car along the flatter trail, and were able to see how life begins after the retreat of a glacier, very interesting. Definitely don't miss this one!!"
"The road up the mountain has lots of twists and turns but it can be easily done with care - it is well worth the trip.When you arrive at the car park you cannot see the glacier and it is necessary to take a short walk up to it. You have a choice of two paths. The one on the left is the better path underfoot but it is the steeper of the two options. The one on the right is rougher, as it is not paved, but it did seem to be the easier route. Both go right up to the pool at the base of the glacier.We took the paved one and did the steeper climb. What this gave us initially was a view looking down at the pool created at the foot of the glacier. The path does go to the pool but the paving stops at the view point.Angel Glacier is so called because of its shape and it is beautiful. The pool at the foot of the lake is where the glacial meltwaters gather and ice that has broken off the glacier floats around the pool."
You must go to see this place. Walk right up and touch iceburgs. Incredible. Easy walk and great sights. Take it slow on the road there its a little bumby. Make sure you include this as part of your trip. You won't be disappointed.
