"I went with a young family and although it was a long hike, it was thrilling to walk along cliffs and deep canyons in the Rocky Mountains....just keep track of the children because it is rugged terrain. So many different vantage points along the way that it is hard to pick a favourite moment. Loved it all and felt closer to nature than I ever have before."
We went for drive out to this lake and wow it was very scenic. To just drive out and go for a walk around is well worth the drive. Did not take the boat ride out on the lake but still well worth going out there.
It was like a dream walking around the on the bridges crossing over the falls. The water was still flowing but with icy packed snow. It was beautiful.
"Tranquil location, with gentle slopes and pretty views. Perfect pit stop, while en route to Banff (or Jasper), to stretch out your legs."
"This is an easy drive from Jasper or if you don't have a car there are organised trips all day from Jasper town centre.My wife and I drove to this venue and then did a hike along the side of the canyon, good paths and signs telling you about the locations.The car/coach park has toilets and a good map showing the area. like many of these outdoor activities you may find you have to ask at the tourist office in Jasper to ensure that if you have any disability or wheel chair that it is suitable.we are oldies but quite fit and steady so if you take your time climbing up and down steps and paths, this Canyon should not pose too much of a problem for you.If in any doubt ask first to save the trip if it is not suitable.EnjoyChris and Helen"
We visit Jasper and make a point of going to Maligne Canyon and would go back a third time. Nature at it's best.
"Maligne Canyon was an enjoyable experience. The canyon is cut deep into the rock over thousands of years, with many areas of interesting bowl and curvature wear patterns. There are walking paths with bridges, for exploration. There is plenty of parking, and a gift shop and restaurant. Overall, well worth a visit."
The canyon is about a 10 minute drive from the Jasper city centre and it is best to park at bridge 5. From here you can cross the bridge and follow the trails all the way up to bridge 1. This walk is about 2 km and well worth it. There are canyons and waterfalls to view along the trail. It is best to allow 3 hours to do the round trip and take in the sights.
"Was really nice scenic area, walking paths around and many places to stop and take selfies or get others take pics for you"
"Must admit,we only had a short stop here due to our hectic timetable,but what we saw was mighty impressive.Only did the walk from Bridge 2 to Bridge 1,but our tour guide assured us that just doing that bit showed you many of the Gorges main features.A few in our party,my wife and I included just wished we could have walked most of it.The scenery was rugged,the scarred rocks imposing,the tumultuous waters far below beating deeper and wider courses far below. It just epitomized what the faces and forces of nature are all about,constantly rolling onward,breathtaking. We were there early morning when it was quiet and not many people there,think that best time to visit."
"Drove the 20 minutes from Jasper to Maligne Canyon and went on a short walk. While my wife has some mobility restrictions, she was able to do the short loop across the first two bridges. The sight of the narrow gorge created by the river was worth the small amount of time expended."
"We walked from bridge 1 to 5 with mum and dad who are in their 70s. It took us probably 1.5 to 2 hrs (one way) with plenty of photo stops. If you are relatively fit then it probably will take you half of that time. If you have young children or elderly in your travel party, consider bridge 1 to bridge 3, walk back to your car; drive to bridge 5 and walk bridge 5-4 return. There’s nothing much really between bridge 3 and 4."
"Beautiful,just to look at the water rushing through the canyon and the landscape around it worth a look"
Almost made the whole walk. My boyfriend and i arent the most physically active people but we managed. It was quite cold seeing as we went in october. Had lunch at the tea house. Had the buffalo burger and it was excellent. Prices for food where decent as well. This place is a must see!
"This is a relatively easy hike, with a few steep and slippery bits (when done in the fall). It's absolutely worth it for the incredible scenery! The trails are well marked, there's plenty of parking and restrooms/picnic tables available. Highly recommended!"
"Really powerful & impressive canyon with waterfalls. Stop here with enough time to hike down the canyon. It is pretty steep so you need suitable footwear & it is fairly brutal on the knees & balls of your feet, so comfy footwear is definitely a must. This is ideal for a day of overcast/grey weather as you are under tree cover most of the time."
This was a beautiful hike. The canyon is amazing with waterfalls. We were able to hike up to have a beautiful view of the area.
"Lots of options to do some, all or part of the 6 bridges. I thought the signage could have been better as it got a bit confusing but we had a map too so worked it out. Some steep up and down hill sections but nothing too horrendous - but could be tricky if icy or snowy. The tea room at 1st bridge was thankfully open ( it's late October so many are closed). We were thankful gif s hot drink, but service was poor and lacked atmosphere. Lots of photo opportunities along the route, and the canyon was quite stunning and impressive."
Went to see it in 2 nights we spent in Jasper well worth the visit no snow but a bit wet nothing to worry about if you have a good pair of hiking shoes no need for technical boots. We did a 4 mile loop from the caffe parking lot to the 5th bridge and back.. I recommend to hoedown the stream and than walk back on the high path...7f I believe it was on the map... well worth it.. And is free with a refreshing pit stop at the cafe.
"This beautiful canyon walk, paths and bridges, and dappled sunlight, along the banks of this mountain stream is really worth the stop, even if you only walk for a little while! We walked for maybe an hour and could have gone further, but it was really cold, and the snow flurries were coming down and well, we're just not seasoned hikers! Don't miss this stop; the beauty makes it all worthwhile!"
"A quick and easily-accessible hike or walk, and good if the weather means the views are problematic."
Great time to visit this attraction as it isn’t too busy. Great opportunity to take gorgeous pictures as there was some snow on the ground.
Very nice spot. Always enjoy photographing this spot and the wildlife. We visit it a few times a year.
"The walk in Maligne Canyon is well worth taking . It is NOT too strenuous, and provides a look into how the river eroded the rock."
"If anyone makes it down to the bottom below the foot bridge, please see if you can find my lens cap! It's a Canon 58 mm!"
Beautiful. Although the water level was low during our visit it was very easy understand how much power in the canyon would be during high water as the low level was powerful. The trail is easy to follow because it is so well marked.
Great hike down the canyon to see some pretty specular canyon depths and waterfalls. Challenging hike but well worth it. Walking sticks are very helpful.
"We loved this canyon! It is very dramatic, changes all along the way. We did the 2hr (approx) walk that took us to the bottom - and the whole way there was something new & spectacular to look at. Bit of a climb back up, but totally worth it. Don't miss!"
I parked at the fifth bridge and followed the railings around to the first bridge and then back. The walk was a bit challenging but the scenery was so beautiful that I just took my time to enjoy it all. It was one of the most beautiful walks I took on my 3 week trip in Canada.
"Recommend that you start at the sixth bridge and walk as far as bridge two (or the reverse if you wish to start at the lower elevation). There are parking lots at each bridge. The canyons that the rushing water has carved in the rock are amazing and each twist in the trail reveals new and glorious views. If you are short on time, limit the number the bridges.My top choice in Jasper."
We hiked the first 4 bridges at Maligne Canyon in 90 minutes – nice views and good place to get some exercise. Drove to the 5th bridge – had good spots to relax next to the river and have a picnic. You need a bug spray to protect oneself from mosquitoes.
"easily one of the BEST places we stopped at on the trip. The walking trails around the canyon are well marked and well maintained. The canyon itself was stunning, with beautiful colors and cool rock formations including a waterfall and it's surrounded by a lush, heavily wooded forest. Very peaceful listening to the canyon river water rushing by and the fresh and coolness of the forest. Make sure you see it!"
"I expected another waterfall but this is way more than that, it is a 50m deep channel sculpted by the water and to do see it properly would take a couple of hours. Would do this rather than a trip on Maligne Lake if I were to go again"
"We did the walk from 6th bridge, and really enjoyed ourselves. The walk from 6th bridge to 5th bridge was pleasant, but if you’re pushed for time you’re not missing much just by parking at the 5th bridge and going from there. Beautiful canyon and waterfalls. A bit muddy in places so wear sensible shoes!"
Found on the way down to Maligne Lake and well worth stopping off either on the way down or back. There are lots of different viewing platforms to get different views at different depths. It is a real work of nature. It was quite busy when we were there in the evening so can only imagine how busy it might be during the days in the height of the season. All of the paths are well constructed but there are some steps. The less fit/healthy/able you are the less areas you will be able to access but you get a good view from any of the viewing points (all views are totally different though). As we'd decided to do it in the evening after walking for miles on the trails around Maligne Lake we didn't have time to go too far which was a pity but if in the area again we would go back and allow more time.
"Due to time restraints I was unable to spend the time here that it warrants, still always next time! Well signposted selection of walks in very pretty surroundings, could only complete the shortest one."
Seeing how the power of the water cutting through the layers of stone is amazing. The waterfalls is a sight that I have never seen before.
"We have been coming here for almost 40 years, but recently had concentrated on the lower canyon. This was our first return trip in a while to the top. The walk and the views are spectacular. Wear sturdy shoes for this hike."
"Here's another hike you can do to see pretty, aqua water running through canyon walls. Not a tough climb and parking is decent. Take your camera!"
"We ended up here near sunset after a trip to Maligne Lake. It might have been the best timing as the canyon was almost empty of visitors. It is an interesting geological formation, and almost seems illogical at times for the flow of its water. It is among the most popular spots in Jasper, but that status is well deserved."
Nice hiking trails and falls in the canyon. Lake is not as attractive an area as many nearby but still worth a visit
"Stunning walk along the canyon with its many waterfalls, bowls and drops. We went all the way to the 5th bridge - keep going - it is worth the view!"
We travelled along the Maligne Canyon Road the day after an early snowfall. The road was cleared and dry but the car park at the lake was snowbound so vehicles parked along the road for some distance instead. The lake is beautiful and well-worth the scenic drive to visit.
To be honest with you it was so scary walking down that pathway and looking into the canyon but it was amazing
The canyon is a truly breathtaking place. I'd recommend hiking down the main trail along the bridges and going back up via hike 7h. It leads you away from the main track and the falls but offers some great views over the whole region
"My trip with my uncle and aunt to Maligne Canyon was beautiful. Southeast of Jasper, follow signs off trans-Canada 16. The canyon cuts across the forest floor as a deep, serpentine crack where the Maligne (muh-LEEN) River slips, pools, swerves, and drops among potholes, hollows, and smooth overhanging walls of limestone. You can loiter or hike along the brink, on winding paths and bridges over the choppy water. Many water falls and wildlife to see, you'll never want to head back! I definately recommend seeing this site, it's unforgettable."
"I don't know, I just figured something called a canyon would be wider, but Maligne Canyon is quite narrow. It's a nice enough hike, and the view of the Maligne Valley from the parking lot is spectacular. I wouldn't make a point of seeing the canyon specifically, but if you are visiting Maligne Lake for the day, you might as well stop here for a bit."
"The absolute power of the waterway to create this canyon is incredible. Beautiful moss, trees and rocky canyon sides and their colour, as well as the fast rushing water, really impresses."
"This is a scenic and beautiful, interesting place to visit but there are more dramatic and spectacular falls and canyons elswhere"
"I didnt get to spend as much time as I would like in Jasper but this stop was amazing! I highly recommend. The only complaint I have is with people, double parking, throwing cigarette butts on the trail, garbage (dirty diaper included) Come on people! Use the garbage cans and keep care of this beautiful land"
"Definitely worth the trip and checking out this Canyon. I saw the Canyon when water was running through it. It has to be pretty incredible to see when it’s all frozen and you get to walk through it.
Nature is amazing !"
"We were on a coach tour and only saw the top section of the canyon. It was all a bit too hurried. There is a lot to see here, so do some research and possibly visit the lower sections. There is quite a bit of walking and climbing if you venture beyond the top area."
This karst feature is viewed from above. The short walk was easy and took 20 min. Amazing to see the power of the water shaping the rock. There were longer more tricky walks for the fitter folk.The tea house had rather fierce staff. The cake we bought was very dry. They advertised lots of different sorts of coffee on the board but in reality there was only filter coffee.
"This did not take as long as we thought it would, although we did not make it to the 6th bridge as dusk wasn't far off. The first 2 or 3 bridges are very busy but once you get past here it is much calmer."
The canyon is beautiful but exhausting when walking all the way back up. There is a beautiful cascade of water toward the bottom of the canyon. It's worth the look but best when it's not hot out and bring some water for the hike.
Visited with my parents (in their 70s). Lovely canyon with lots of trails for walking and places to view the small falls through the canyon. Some trails longer than others so plenty of options depending on your ability and how much time you have. Toilets (longdrops) available. Reasonable amount of parking with a small restaurant which served a variety of snacks and drinks. This canyon is definitely worth a visit if you are in Jasper.
"The canyon was narrow although fairly deep; it was smaller in size than Johnston Canyon near Banff, and much smaller than the Ausable Chasm in Upper New York state, US. There were a couple of trails around the canyon, but we only took the shortest loop."
"Visited this place while on trip in the Rockies, and wow,,,,wow ,, the views and the noise were fantastic, the different falls and views were great and you could walk around easy...a must if in area"
"If you are going to Maligne Lake you will pass this and it’s well worth seeing, there is a properly constructed path for most of the way along the canyon but some parts can be very steep and also slippery. If you can manage it though it’s worth it.We saw our first Black Bear by the side of the road during our drive between Maligne Lake and Maligne Canyon, this is a long slow road through quiet countryside so there’s a good chance of seeing wildlife."
"Arrived via bus and probably could have seen more without a time limit, but was amazing nonetheless. Not crowded at all, allowing for scenic photos without unnecessary bodies in the way."
"This is a lovely walk down into Maligne canyon. We went a few days after heavy snow and it was very slippery in places! We walked as far as the fourth bridge, beyond that it's a very long walk (you can drive to the fifth bridge!) Took about an hour all in with photos etc."
"we did the trail on our last day in Jasper.nice canyon, but you have to go back all the way up as a family.the trail is a bit hard for those not in great shape.but, it is worth the effort. we did the long trail.you will need a baby carrier backpack which can be rented form Jasper"
"What a unique spot to hike and look way down into the canyon. Once you get past the first three bridges, there are far less people and more more quiet and solitude time to enjoy the Canyon. Take time and enjoy the hike and experience it....comfortable hiking shoes are a necessity! Truly a unique spot!"
"This was an amazing place. I just loved it. The scenery is so beautiful. The walks are great, along with all the view points."
Easy walk with a choice of a bit more difficult return hike if wanted. The scenery was beautiful. A great place to walk and take pictures.
"Never seen anything like this before. Essentially you can see the power of waters carving out a canyon. You get a bird's view of waterfalls and rivers in the canyon. Walking up is a bit strenuous, but well worth it."
"This is a great walk, however we did it when the paths were icy and slippery, so that added another dimension we weren't really expecting. It was fairly precarious in parts but the walk and scenery are beautiful and well worth doing. Hiking boots are a must if if there has been any snowfall."
"This was a fantastic stop on our tour. The Falls are well-hidden in a deep canyon but can be heard long before they are seen! I would definitely do this again, if I was back in this area. There is also a very nice cafe and gift shop associated with Falls."
"Cool to see. We only got to see the first & second bridges because we didnt have enough time and we were quite tired but it was really worth it! Our visit was only about 20 minutes. There's 5th and 6th viewpoints which will take about 2 & 3 hrs respectively, with return. We plan to that on our next visit! Will surely plan it for the next summer!"
"After parking our car, we made our way to the information board where we found that there are 6 bridges which one can visit to view and photo the canyon. We decided to tackle all 6 although there are lesser options. The gorge or canyon is very impressive but the trails are muddy and slippery. There are great photo opportunities but the return from the sixth bridge is quite demanding physically."
Good parking and paved path down to the canyon. Even though it was a snowy day the path was an easy walk. The scenery is great and I took a lot of pictures. It is free.
We heard plenty of Maligne Lake and found this gem on the way there! An amazing example of nature's beauty!
Brilliant drive from Jasper to Lake Maligne. Some great trails to walk too. Would recommend taking time to do the route.
"Visited the six bridge canyon before our lake cruise, a must if visiting this region, we didn't do all the bridges because of time but would have loved to"
"We stopped here as part of a day trip out of Jasper, The short walk we took provided a number of views into the canyon and the fast flowing water. The longer walk probably provides for a better experience,The facilities here include a reasonable cafe and the inevitable souvenir shop."
Long trail downhill (and back - uphill) along the river. Nice falls and scenery.The best part is up to and including bridge #4.Bridge #5 is far away and in reality is nothing but a bridge that spans over the river... And bridge #6 is the same.Take care to bring enough water if it's hot.
"You really need to see this place for yourself to see the beauty of it . We had a lovely visit , again the views are fantastic , come and see for yourself ."
Stopped off here for a view of more wonderful scenery and waterfalls. Worth a visit to take in the beauty.
This whole area is a not miss if you are in the state. It is nature at its best and the vistas are breath-taking.
"Super views and very nice hike. Can make a short or long hike, pending on your choice. Lots of information signs alobg the way."
"The Maligne Canyon is crisscrossed by six bridges. We started at the second bridge, hiked up to the first bridge, then down to the third bridge before returning to the second bridge. It was an interesting hike and lots of photo opportunities and I would highly recommend covering these three bridges. I also drove to the Fifth Bridge and the Sixth Bridge on the way out of the canyon, but these two bridges are nothing special and I didn't see any waterfall close by. Unlike the parking situation for the second bridge, there were just a few cars and plenty of parking for the fifth and the sixth bridge as it is a long hike up to the third bridge."
Start at Bridge 6 and head up from there. Bridge 6 to 5 is very quiet. After 5 things pick up but not really crowded til #3. This is a very unique and special place. Seeing the springs along the way is exceptional. Hope you love it as much as we did !!!
"Gorgeous canyon with fairly easy walking tracks, a few steps to negotiate. Another stunning 'must see' along the Icefields Parkway."
"We started at the top (mercifully) and went down to the 5th bridge overlook...we are seniors in fairly good shape but we couldn't see climbing back up up up up to the parking lot at overlook 1/2...so we hitch hiked which took a long time...glad we did this because the bridge overlooks are fantastic, but if we did ti again I would go only 1/2/3/4 max and go back up and take the car to 5 and 6 which are much flatter and less spectacular in terms of falls and rock formations. VERY VERY VERY GLAD we did this in spite of how steep it is, it is easy with great trails and steps and hand rails all along, but it is steep!"
"Canyons, gorges and karsts. Fabulous photo opportunities abound. Serious hikers will love the trails. Casual hikers will also enjoy."
"Again, another canyon with another magical view. Maligne lake and canyon are a must visit if you are in the area."
"We didn't walk the entire trail, since evening was approaching when we started the trail at bridge 1. It is a good trail which we followed untill bridge 2. From each bridge you have a magnificent view over the canyon. There are sufficient expanatory signboards. We have to come back to see bridges 3 to 6."
"One of the most stunning trails in Jasper, the first 3 falls are worth it but if your stuck for time ,you dont miss much on the other falls."
Very interesting. Amazing how canyons are carved by natural forces of window do water temperature and weather. We see how it must take thousands of years.
You can park at 6th bridge and hike up the canyon which is real nice but a little steep. Or you can park up near tea house and walk over to see the more easily accessed viewing areas. We thought it was a great place to visit.
Time your visit between tour busses and you'll enjoy this canyon immensely. Walk down as far as you wish - there are six bridges and you can get a good look at the canyon just going to 3 or 4. Fascinating -
"This canyon has a few viewpoints, but we went as far as the 2nd Bridge. After this bridge the path gets very steep going downwards, and you would need to watch your footing. The rocks on the path are very slippery, as I found out first hand when I slipped on one! (Still sporting a bruise 2 weeks later). If you have time it is worth a visit - beautiful at every turn.If you are short on time and travelling south, save your canyon visit to Johnston Canyon, which was my personal preference of the two."
"We so enjoyed our tour of this fascinating canyon. There are a variety of hikes of different lengths available. We did the short one, over two of the six bridges."
"Several options to pick the length of your walk. We've only been here in summer, but I'd love to come back for a guided ice walk."
Quite lovely. Do the entire hike. It is well worth it! Steep at times but take your time to rest often and enjoy the beautiful surroundings
"Gosh what a day!!We went for a stroll down the canyon which is so worth the visit, very beautiful. However having decided on a short walk we after four and a half hours managed to find our way back to the car park!!! The sign system is very poor and confusing. Having decided it was just us we soon discovered other couples struggling to find their way back too. So after hours walking, thirsty and tired we were happy to se our little car. So be warned, be prepared in case you too get lost.Having said that it was a super day."
great walk but can get steep and you go on the hike ..recommend good pair of shoes ....it was also crowded even in September but as long as you are hiking further on the trail it thins out
The hike itself down the canyon was nice. Going back up was a lot of work though! The canyon was beautiful although it did not have a lot of water flowing through it. The hike to the 5th and 6th bridge is quite far but we figured out on the way down that you can drive there as well! The waterfalls were beautiful all around!
I would do the lake first and then stop here for a quick walk around. A few hiking trails but there are better spots for hiking.
"Since we went to Maligne Lake we did the walk around the Canyon as well. It is okay, nothing spectacular. I would suggest skipping Maligne Canyon and replace it with maybe Peyto Lake."
No charges. Canyon fascinating. We didn't go right to bridge 6 but if you do allow 2 hours or more. Shop not expensive.
"Well worth a visit. Does get very busy, but plenty of car parking. The paths around the canyon are well kept and easy to walk along. The Canyons are spectacular. Toilet facilities are extremely basic and were full of flies. The gift shop is well stocked, and reasonably priced. Cafe is large, with good choice of foods. Very expensive native artwork on the walls."
"We parked up at the parking lot and started our small walk at 3rd Bridge. Made our way down to 4th Bridge and then retreated back to 2nd Bridge. Gorgeous views all around the trail , but very touristy."
The walk is as easy or difficult as you want to make it. There are six bridges in all - we did the four and that was enough for us. But we drove down and picnicked at the fifth when we were finished. Beautiful scenery.
"This is a fascinating place to visit, full of dramatic canyon scenery. Take the longer walk from sixth bridge if you have the time."
"Enjoyed walking this trail from 5th bridge car park, some exposed paths over magnificent canyon with lots of white water. Lots of photo opportunities as you walk up (quite steep in places) canyon crossing different bridges. As you near upper car park the trail got busier as coach party groups did the shorter upper canyon loop. We thought the lower part of canyon was more impressive as river widens. Some interesting geology features, good interpretation boards."
"A splendid, easy hike to take in Jasper National Park. It is paved, and you won't be in any danger of bear attacks, as long as you are there in the high season, with lots of other people on the trail."
"Went on Scenic tour. A half day walk to watch roaring water cut into the embankments. Our guide, Warren, was knowledgeable and personable. Fantastic day, even at the end when we had to get through some pretty slippery mud. I enjoyed the views and learning more about the area."
We almost passed by having already seen Johnston Canyon and on our way to Maligne Lake - so glad we stopped. This is an awing canyon - deep gorges cut by roaring water and some easy walkways and viewpoints. We started with breakfast at the Resturant and did the first ( and easy part) of the walkway. We were overwhelmed by the beauty of this site. On the way back from Maligne Lake we stopped at bridges 5 and 6 - it is much calmer and flatter there - be sure to start at bridge 1 for the truly impressive experience.
"Maligne Canyon, which is also in the same branch of the park as the Maligne Lake was another breathtaking stop. Really steep cavernous canyon with some beautiful hiking along its ridge. Water rushes through this canyon at some really high speeds at certain points. It's amazing how erosion over the years and left behind such shapely and beautiful formations."
"Sorry, couldn't think of any other title. An interesting diversion on the way to or back from Maligne Lake. Probably best to go there when the water is high, but one usually doesn't have a choice. It is not a difficult trek, but some of the stone paths are very slippery, even when dry. Unfit visitors might find getting to the third bridge and back a struggle."
"Maligne Canyon was a total surprise for me. I never expected what I saw and it is one of the best places in Jasper. We would have seen huge canyons such as Grand Canyon but if you want to see one being built by mother nature now, you should visit this place. The trail takes you over 6 or 8 bridges across the canyon giving you stunning views of water’s creations out of rock. Several hours after the visit you will still wonder how those canyons are being carved out. Don’t miss it.The trail is well developed and LOOKS safe but very slippery at places. Watch out for those well-polished shining rocks on the way, they are slippery. There is a café, gift shop and bathrooms near the parking"
"So please we went to the Canyon. We called in after going to Maligne Lake on a very grey day, and it made the day. It's worth the walk to the bridges because round each bend there's another beautiful part of the waterfall. Great fun playing with the camera settings to make the water look blurry or frozen."
After going on the Maligne Lake Cruise we decided to go to the Canyon. If you like hiking this is the place to go for a short hike. The Maligne Canyon is gorgeous and shows how hundreds of thousands of years have eroded the rock into beautiful sculptures. Make sure to bring your camera and water.Well worth the walk.
Maligne canyon is just a few minutes from Jasper and within a few meters from the parking lot you are next to a fairly deep gorge with a strong river flow . The path has many loops which offer longer or shorter walks so it is suitable for all except physically handicapped. At each bridge the view is different.We then drove to Maligne Lake which is very pretty but after being spoilt with the canyon and other similar lakes it becomes ordinary.
"We were told the the disappearing water from Medicine Lake showed up in this canyon/former cave. Our tour group had the option of being led on a short walk down to a bridge and back up to the tea house. Not bad, but some of the viewing points on rock were slippery--so need to be careful. One woman actually fell, and I seriously slipped but hung on to the rail. It gave us a good view of the depth, some interior waterfalls, and finally of the river as it flows into the canyon. Well worth the stop to see this unusual natural formation. We also had to see the million dollar jade bear for sale inside. Really?"
You can walk as many bridges as you want. Walk is hilly. Lots of viewing points. We drove to bridge 5 and 6 because we were short of time.
Stunning scenery and a lovely walk. Paths are a little uneven in places so care needed and there are also uneven steps and gradients to get over. One of the many highlights of our trip.
"This place is a sculpture of nature and worth a lot. So near jasper, around 15 minutes. We saw a small bear by the road. I recommend."
"We parked at the less crowded fifth bridge parking lot and hiked to bridges 1-4. The hike was amazing with tremendous views and lots of picture moments. There is a great gift store and nice eating spot. We ate our picnic lunch outside.On the way back we took the upper hike with different views, which were also amazing!"
I would say go if you have extra time. Maybe we didn't get to the right trail/spot. Not impressive at all.
Maligne Canyon is beautiful and the trail is well kept. There were just so many people in Jasper this summer! It was difficult to find a parking spot. It is much quieter in the off season. Well worth the drive for a nice hike in every season.
"Rushing water a 100' below in karst canyons and great mountain views here and there. Like all canyon walks, it's pretty steep."
We love visiting here but it was our first time on a long weekend. Never again. Bus loads of tourists were difficult to navigate. Food at restaurant was horrifically priced and not overly tasty. We left within an hour when we planned to stay a half day.
"After our visit to Maligne Lake, we stopped by to check out the canyon. We walked from the First Bridge to the 5th bridge. This took us about 2 hours round trip and was challenging in a few spots. There was many spots to take wonderful photos. There is bathroom facilities at the parking lot, and at the 5th bridge.  If you don't want to endure the long hike, there is separate parking lots that access 5th bridge and 6th bridge. Bring hiking shoes, and also water and snacks. This is certainly a hike that is worth the time."
A brilliant place to visit. We had a lovely walk through here with a very knowledgeable guide. Would love to visit in winter.
"We started our hike along this gushing water near the visitors' center and followed the path close to it over the various bridges down to Bridge #5. There are several trails that branch off each other, and some are very well marked, but others have signs missing, marred, or hard to see at some key junctions. We ended up heading towards Bridge #6 by mistake, having missed our turn to head back to parking, so turned around and did find the trail we wanted finally but walked further than we had intended. It was quite steep in places once away from the water.All in all, extremely interesting and very beautiful."
"The malign canyon is very beautiful. We drove all the way up and parked a car up and another car down at bridge 5 and then trekked down from the top to the bottom. Adventurous hikers can also go both ways. With little kids, it's best to go top down, as the views both ways are the same. There are spots where the views are beautiful, see waterfalls and also water seeping thru the mountains. There is also a spot where you can dip your feet in the water and drink the amazing mountain water."
"We parked at gate 5 and walked to gate 2 which was a good decision. It was very busy and parking was competitive. I suggest walking back up the track rather than the stairs, much easier"
"Maligne Canyon is a natural feature located in the Jasper National Park near Jasper, Alberta, Canada. The canyon measures over 50 metres deep."
This place is breath taking. The hike from the 5th bridge up to the 1st bridge was not too difficult with plenty of great view stops. A few days later we strolled through the woods and along the river from the 5th bridge to the 6th bridge where there is a very nice picnic area.
We walked down to the 5th bridge and back - absolutely fabulous scenery- Mother Nature at its most spectacular ! So many places to stop and marvel at the world and soak it in. Definitely a must see in the area
"This hike was never dull because the views of the canyon, river & waterfalls were around every bend. The main trail goes consistently down so you have to go back up. We went back a different trail but it was nearly as scenic."
There are 6 bridges that you can hike across. We hiked up to the 4th bridge and decided to stop. It was a nice hike with lovely water falls.
"Would not miss this if traveling in Canadian Rockies. Our Caravan Tour Bus took us here, and it was certainly worth the trip."
"The scenery is wonderful. Loose yourself in the experience and just stop, look and hear all that is going on around you."
"Maligne canyon is spectacular and a great walk with many amazing sights and awesome scenery.But it is also very popular so I strongly suggest going early to avoid the crowds!Make the effort to go to the 5th or 6th bridge, the crowds thin out and the walk is more peaceful"
"I parked by the 1st bridge, walked down to the 6th bridge, and then walked back up the 7F trail. Awesome, not too strenuous"
We took the short hike to the first falls & they are beautiful. I wish we had had more time to hike to all of them. Definitely plan a half day here & maybe more to get all the way to the lake. We will have to return to see it all.
My husband remembered the gorge walk from 25 years ago. Once again it did not disappoint. Highly recommended as I don't know of another place quite like it in the world. Very deep and very narrow with powerful water flows.
"A very enjoyable hike. If you start from the top you can see the river cut deeper and deeper into the canyon and see waterfalls, cascades and more. The terrain drops from first bridge, so we hiked (mostly down) to fifth bridge. Along the way you can see the underground river feeding into the surface Maligne River in places --- how often do you see something like that?! If you have a friend or 2 cars, do what we did and leave a car at 5th bridge so you don't have to hike back up!"
Until you actually see the canyon you cant really accept the depth and the formation. It is easily reached being close to Jasper and has ample parking available. We walked over the '5 bridges' and each one offered spectacular photo opportunities. It is one of the deepest canyons in Canada.
"wonderful and relaxing drive. always brings comfort and good memories of previous trips. do not drive too fast, you might miss the animals along the road, and do not feed or pet them"
"Continuing on from Bridge 4 to bridges 5-6 will give the complete hike but it adds a lot of distance and time to your hike. Starting at bridge 1 and then returning back from bridge 4 gives amazing views as well as a different down and back view of the canyon and falls.Started earlier in the morning hoping to see wildlife but was not lucky. By mid morning in July, the trail is packed around bridges 1-4 but definitely thins out at bridges 5 and 6."
"Beautiful, beautiful, beautiful. Great shots of nature at work, waterfalls, holes, eddys, and photographic opportunity. Wear hiking clothes and shoes. The route is not really that long, but tripping and slipping hazards exist. The hike back up the canyon can be a bit rough on an out of shape visitor..nice gift shop and restaurant at the beginning of the trail."
"The walk was fabulous, but do wear sturdy footwear. It might be slippery when wet. The walks are signposted very well."
"It is definitely worth stopping at Malinge Canyon! But beware: the paths are partially labeled as ""easy"" - they still have some good climbs. Even the interpretive loop of about 20-30min has a good climb and is not really suggested with people who have limitations walking. The way down to the bridges 3 and 4 takes a steep downhill climb and if you do not have parked your car further down the canyon, you have to remember that you have to come up all the way again. For those who still want to get a glimpse of the canyon beside the interpretive loop: drive down to the bridges 5 and 6 and take a walk along the waters edge - enjoying the forest, the water and the animals along the way."
"Stop after you've visited the lake as it is easier to find a parking spot here. Take the series of bridges around the loop to see the canyon, waterfall and river. Nice stop!"
"If you want to see nature at its best the Maligne Canyon walk is one you have to do. There are six bridges along the way and we chose to start at the 5th bridge and walk to number 1. Not only is the parking much easier here ( there is a signpost along the road ) than at the main (#1) lot but the walk keeps getting more and more beautiful. Delayed gratification at its best as the beginning is great but as you reach bridge numbers 3, 2 and 1 you will love this place more and more. Be ready to take lots of pictures and to stop many times along the way.  Don't expect to see much in the way of wildlife as the many walkers will keep the animals away but expect to see rushing water, waterfalls and narrow canyons that will take your breath away.  If you are seeing reviews here mentioning Maligne Lake just know that is about 40 minutes away so that is a separate trip that needs to be made."
"This is a nice end to a day at Maligne lake , if your staying in Jasper it's on the way back as well so it's a nice end to the day. The depth of the gorge is quite staggering and great for a pic or two."
"Not to be missed, but get there early to beat the crowds. The lake is amazingly beautiful with some great short walks. On one of the them we were lucky enough to stumble across three moose who were drinking at another lake. Amazing to be so close to these fantastic animals."
This ride up to Maligne Lake is very pleasant and you pass many pull offs where you can take photos. Maligne Lake is not to be missed.
"15 minutes from Jasper, the turnoff for Maligne Canyon is well signposted and easy to find on the left of Maligne Lake Road. A large carpark allows for plenty of vehicles. The trail takes you on an easy walk around both sides of the canyon, crossed at a series of bridges. We did 3 bridges and spent about 1 1/2 hours taking photos. A short walk through a forested area took us back to the car. This is a very pretty place and in mid June was not too crowded. If driving, you cansee a few sites in one day: we went on a Maligne Lake cruise, lunch at restaurant there, saw a lot of wildlife (beaers and goats, marmots) on the Maligne Lake Road, walked around Maligne Canyon, went up Jasper Skytram and finished with dinner back in Jasper."
"Beautiful Canyon and experience. Our daughter, son in law and grandchildren chose to walk up the canyon we chose to drive to the top and walk part way down to meet them. I think we made the wise choice for old folks."
We only did the first two bridges as we were short on time but would have liked to have done more. The narrowness and depth of the canyon is spectacular and unlike others we saw in the Rockies.
"In my opinion, anyhow. Do it from the top (first bridge) down, unless you're super hardcore and hate yourself, then do it the other way. You'll need someone to pick you up at whichever bridge you're ending at unless you're doing the loop (in which case you are both crazy and admirable, high five!). Seriously though, this is a gorgeous hike with lots of informative signs. Even the lesser used trail from the 5th to 6th bridge is gorgeous, even though it's not in the canyon anymore. If you're going to pick one place to walk, pick this one!"
The Maligne area in general has been on my bucket list for quite some time and my wife and I finally were able to check it off. And I will be back to explore in even more detail. It is just awesome to see where the river use to flow and how far down it is now!! Blew my mind. A must see but it can be busy so go early or late but mid day is not the best time.
"We visited Malign Canyon after spending a fantastic morning on Malign Lake. When we arrived at the main parking area we circled for 15 minutes and could not find parking. Sadly, we started to leave, and as we drove down Malign lake road found the parking area for 5th bridge. You can access the entire canyon trail in reverse from that parking area which was absolutely empty! What a find. This is a fantastic hike. Much more strenuous than Athabasca falls, but the canyon is spectacular. Narrow but deep with absolutely raging water. Lovely."
"Banff and Jasper are full of impressive canyons scoured out by rushing glacial waters and we visited many of them in a recent eight-day trip. Maligne has the advantage that, in places, you can climb down to the canyon bottom and practically dip your feet in the rushing waters. You can also clearly see the ""secret"" passages through which the waters of Medicine Lake find their way out through passages in the walls of the canyon. In short, you really connect with the place (as you might also with Johnston Canyon if you're lucky enough to be there when it's not overcrowded).We hiked the 2.1 km trail from bottom to top, which is slightly more strenuous than the reverse, but has the advantage of better views as you come up to waterfalls and rapids and ever deeper sections of the canyon. At one point, cold air ""falling"" through the canyon from above doused our overheated bodies, to wonderful effect.My overtired and overheated son didn't feel like making the return journey down the canyon, so I quickly scampered back down, picked up our car, and drove to the tea house at the top of the canyon where he was recuperating with an energy drink."
"When we visited with Sundog Tours, the weather caused us to shorten the tour. High winds dropped trees and branches. What we did see was beautiful. We saw it from up top and looking down at the narrow, winding crevasse makes you realize the true power of water. Dave, our driver/guide, pointed out the various rock layers and the history of the area, as well as soon embedded fossils on the walk."
"Like it. Got there at 6:30pm, but still able to have a tour of the canyon. We went all the way to bridge 7 and walked back from the trail. It was nice to see the beautiful sun set in the forest. Lovely place."
"I stopped into Mailgne canyon early in the morning before the bike shops of Jasper opened up.I beat all the crowds and besides a handful of cars in the parking lot, I had the place to myself. The canyon is very impressive. I only checked out the first 2 bridges as I didn't have the time to walk to the other ones. Next time I will make more time. It is quite the place to visit."
"A gorgeous canyon, don't miss it if you are in Jasper. Gets very crowded. Suitable for all ages and abilities, with easy paths."
For some reason I enjoyed Maligne Canyon much more than Athabasca Falls. Perhaps because I had higher expectations for Athabasca and not really any expectations for Maligne but I was really impressed with the depth and power of the canyons here. Also less people to contend with than at Athabasca.
This kind of tranquil BEAUTY you cant find in overpopulated cities we live in. MUST do trip if you visit Jasper. Not only you visit Maligne lake and canyon you will see Medicine lake and might see some wildlife on the way. We saw mule deer and a male white tale deer on the way back.
"Was getting late in the day and almost didn't go, what a mistake that would have been. The formations and force of the water was great to see. Walk is a bit of an issue if you have mobility issues as very all down hill or all up hill"
"This was one of many falls we visited on our recent trip, all of which were amazing, but this was one of the best. The walk is not for the faint hearted especially if you remember that you have to walk back up at the end!There was plenty of parking but it was very busy. As with many of these types of attractions when you have walked a little way the number of people seem to drop off dramatically! What was particularly good about these falls was that whilst there appears to be no rivers joining the main river the amount of water increased, this is due to water coming from a lake above the falls. We did bridge 2 to 5. 6 seemed a long way off and for some reason we didn't go back for one! Any pictures you take will not do justice to the falls."
We happened on this by accident. No charge for a number of different hiking paths. The force of the water was amazing.
"I took my husband and kids (14, 12, 9) here on our family vacation to the Rocky Mountains. It was a must for me as I vaguely remembered it from my own trip 30 years before and I'd read in brochures how nice it is. We weren't disappointed. We arrived right at 8 am because I wanted to experience it without the crowds. The beautiful quiet of the hike was wonderful. We went from the first and second bridges right through to bridge five, then took the high trail back along the gorge to the entrance. Wonderful and memorable experience!"
"This is a must see however, stay away from peak season. I took heaps of photographs. The walk to the fifth bridge is well worth it."
"Walking along the flowing river inside this narrow canyon will give you some breathtaking Scenic. Needless to say, keen photographers and visitors will be busily making the shots they like. Remember, the scene varies from one end to the other. A beautiful beautiful hidden gem of the national park."
We decided on an early start to avoid the crowds (mid June- arrived at 8.30). We chose to park at 6th Bridge and hike the whole length and back. From the 5th bridge the canyon really starts and the views of the raging river were great. It was fascinating to see and read about the water flowing through and out from under the cliffs. The whole hike return took about 3 hours. For those not wanting a great hike as well as a great view the large carpark is a better option. We prefer the solitude of the lesser utilised trails.
"I was hoping for a proper hike but this was a gentle, guided walk along steady pathways. We were shown some interesting vegetation and there were some fine waterfalls, particularly the bridal veil falls."
A particularly beautiful place was charged to the whole family. The place is organized and arranged steeply uphill and the appearance while the immigration is already moving you. On the mountain is revealed an entire world spread before you from the rivers to the heights of the high mountains. A gorgeous panoramic view is worth. At the top of the mountain there is also a restaurant. Worth effort.
"Beautiful spot, unfortunately the smoke from the BCs fires blew in and the mountains could not be seen very well but the staff made up for that by entaining us with great bits of info."
"We didn't realize that this would easily be our favorite spot. Definitely worth the stop. We walked from Bridge 1 to Bridge 4. They were all amazing, but if you are weary due to disability (as my mother is) let it be noted that Bridge 1 was the best view point and is right next to a lovely tea house to rest."
"Doesn't matter how many times we come to Jasper, Maligne canyon is always breathtaking! Easy to hike down, but back up is very steep."
We stopped here and was greatly surprised at it. Great for taking photographs. Favorite of bus tours so can get crowded but most people were polite.
"this was a short hike to the view points but well worth the visit if you are driving , really enjoyed the peace and tranquility"
"Walk a little way into the Maligne Canyon and WOW!! A very deep canyon with heaps of gushing water. Very, very spectacular. Lots of interesting plants around the canyon also."
"We did the hike for hikers and horses to the 7th bridge and back.
What a great hike lovely scenary and a nice hike"
Like many of the Jasper sites in Summer you have to be prepared for the crowds. The canyon is worth the visit and the further you are prepared to walk the better. Because you can walk along the river for some time this was a lovely hike.
We were so glad we stopped to see these false it was a great hike and beautiful waterfall views from different angles. The hiking paths were very easy to manage and well-maintained.
"Park at the tea room at the top, then walk down to the 4th bridge. Once there there's little point in going all the way to the fifth bridge. There is a 6th bridge I think which is quite a way down, best repark at the fifth bridge car park then walk from there. Tea room was good as well."
"I would only recommend if you are not into really hiking or if you are looking for a quick visit. I was unimpressed, however my family and I are more into hiking that is moderate to difficult. It's a good pick for families with younger kids or people who may not be able to handle something else."
"Maligne Canyon is a spectacularly beautiful place to go for a hike and marvel at this incredible natural wonder and there are plenty of photo opportunities along this scenic trail. The canyon is located only a ten minute drive from the town of Jasper and is easily accessible. It's a popular place for visitors to explore, but if you arrive early in the morning (7:30 or 8 am), you will beat most of the crowds. You can start the hike from various points along the canyon. I started from the parking lot at the Fifth Bridge and hiked uphill along the canyon to the First Bridge and then downhill on the way back, which I preferred. The trail follows alongside the canyon the entire hike and the scenery gets more and more beautiful the closer you get to the First Bridge. Although there was some elevation gain, the inclines were fairly gentle and nothing too difficult or steep at all. The narrow canyon was so deep and beautiful and the surrounding scenery was gorgeous! It was incredible to imagine how the power of water had eroded and carved this gorge over many years. I actually preferred Maligne to Johnston Canyon in Banff and found it to be more breathtaking and less crowded and touristy.There were incredible viewpoints of the canyon from the Fourth, Third, Second and First Bridges and at various points along the way too. There were bathrooms at the trailhead of the Fifth and First Bridges in the parking area and a restaurant near the First Bridge as well. The hike from the Fifth Bridge to the First and back took me around 2.5 hours including my many stops for taking photos and admiring the awe-inspiring natural beauty. If you are staying in Jasper, Maligne Canyon is definitely worth exploring. It was one of the highlights from my trip to the area."
Nice but it should not be the main attraction of the Jaspers' trip in my opinion. You can see here many falls and all the work of the river inside the mountains. It's a good place to go only if you have time to spent. I preferred many other things we saw in the nearby.
Beautiful canyon with multiple waterfalls. You can hike quite a distance down the canyon but remember your going to have to hike all the way back up again. We went to the 5th bridge and decided to turn around there. Really neat how a lake drains through the mountain in a cave system around here.
"This canyon is beautiful and breathtaking! The force of the water going through is incredible, we weren't expecting what we saw! Don't miss it!"
"The canyon is easily reached, has an easy, medium and harder walk and plenty of parking. It doesn't take long to see the canyon and it's well worth the visit."
"This canyon is a short 15 minute drive from Jasper and it's worth the trip. The upper end is best and it changes to a river around the 5th bridge. Nice hike, especially the first five bridges."
"We liked Maligne canyon very much. We probably liked it more than Johnston Canyon in Banff, but they are different and both worth going to."
Visited the canyon on way back from lake maligne. It was well worth the stop. The walk took about an hour. The views were amazing. It was an easy walk and not over crowded. There is a restaurant at the lake end exit which was great when we finished walking.
"We heard that this canyon is especially pretty. It was a rainy day when we hiked it. We were kind of thankful for that because the hike was long. There are many viewpoints along the way. We did do all six bridges. I would forgo the sixth one. You can drive to see that one if you really want to see it. In fact, you can drive to see fifth bridge as well. The hike is pretty but can be taxing going down the canyon. Lots of slippery places. They do have handrails to assist you along the way. We tried to take a different way out and got a little list. 7f is the best way back from bridge five. It is higher and more in the forest but not as bad as doing the stairs. They do have a nice gift shop and restaurant to enjoy after your trek."
Visitor centre suggested us this place as a couple of hours trail & it was perfect for that! Loved the hike parallel to river!
If you enjoy a moderate hike I recommend parking at 6th Bridge and hiking approximately 4 km to the restaurant and back again. That way you will be going mainly uphill for the first half of your hike and downhill for the second. It took us about 2.5 hours total at a moderate pace. If you are short on time or don't care to walk that far you can park at 5th bridge and not really miss anything as the walk from 6th bridge to 5th bridge is long and not quite as scenic. You will need water and comfortable shoes.
We stopped almost on a whim really. Started by just wanting a look and then ended up walking from first to the fifth bridge. A beautiful place. Again busy around bridge 1 and 2 but then we were on our own. Walked back on the 7H which made a change. Initially steep but then levels out. A fabulous place.
This was our favorite hike in the national park. We parked at the 6th bridge to begin (a lot less crowded). To make it to the 3rd bridge and back it took 2.5 hours.
We were not sure about visiting the canyon as we had already seen the Athabasca and Sunwapta Falls The Maligne Canyon is completely different though and is surprisingly deep and very beautifulWe only did the short upper walk and will do the longer walks along the canyon when we return next yearJust too good to miss
Started from the carvoatkvabd followed the trail 7h which had some decent ascent and nice hike along the river. Circa good part of the hike there was a fence running parallel to the trail ..... Odd !! I have no idea why that was there. It kept all wild life away from the trail...!The centuries old river fed by the meeting glacier had sculpted great shapes into side rock walls !!! Worth seeing the power of nature through the centuries.Hiked all the way to the 6th bridge and back. A demanding hike for a novice.
If you start at the visitor centre /cafe you'll find this very busy. Continuing walking pasta bridge 3 though and the foot traffic thins out considerably. Take some of the other trails in the forest and you can get to the same views with less busyness.
Bring your walking shoes. Beautiful views of waterfalls and the canyon. If you are in the area take a look.
"This has drama and beauty, and photo opportunities alongside every bend of the canyon and on the narrow bridge that crosses the chasm. Do be sure to hold on to your camera—every year when the water is low and the Park Wardens clean out the river, they retrieve lots of lost cameras, cell phones, glasses—unsecured belongings of the tourists."
"Amazing what water can do to rocks. We only did the short hike and a few places are a bit challenging to navigate the rocky path, but it's worth it. Just remember to look up from the unsure footing and marvel in the beauty. And send somebody else back to get your car."
My wife and I loved visiting Maligne Canyon. We spent the early part of the day at Maligne Lake and arrived at the canyon by around 4:00pm. There were no crowds. We parked right by the entrance and in all honesty we saw less than ten people on our visit. We were able to move at our own pace ( which is relatively slow ). I found the canyon amazing. The depth and relative narrowness of the canyon is spectacular. We were there in July when the crowds are at their peak so we picked times of day that worked around those crowds.
"My friend and I took our boys for a Dad/Son trip to Maligne Canyon. The 5 year old was initially pretty scared looking over the side of the 1st and 2nd bridges, but he got over it pretty quick. They loved the waterfalls and exploring there. Highly recommended!"
"Lots of chain linked fences to protect kids and the over eager adventurers from harm as you walk this mile long trail between first and fifth bridge! We started at the fifth bridge and followed the tortuous trail #7 along the river and canyon until we reached the tea house and that took us best part of an hour with numerous breaks for pictures and restore energy! Quite dramatic as it changes from a regular mountain torrent to a thundering steaming jet in the deep 100ft canyons near bridge #1 and #2. Having had a drink at the tea house veranda we headed back down and took trail 7f which is a lot quicker, even grade and partly shaded. Great day out!"
"We almost passed on stopping our last day in the area. Really glad we did. Due to the limited walking ability, and other things we had done during the day we were not sure it was something we could do. The is a long trail. However, you can choose what you want to do. The first three or four areas were magnificent. The depth of the Canyon, clearness, and power of the water was amazing and inspiring. The trail was paved and had only a slight incline. It would be nice to do the entire thing but if you have only a little time or ability. You need to do the first few out of the parking lot."
We've been in the winter for the ice walks and the summer for the hiking it is always so beautiful and fun. We spend the day and don't have to pay a cent to be there. Of course there is an awesome gift shop and restaurant at the top if you do want to spend some money.
"We loved this stop on our bus tour! An easy walk but extrememly interesting! Could have lingered here for a picnic but alas, had to catch the bus!"
This stop was another favorite along the way...a must see! Be sure to take a video of this spectacle...
"This is a fantastic hike and easily done by beginners. You don't want to miss this one! Start (and park) at bridge 6 or 5 and walk up to bridge 1, that way you'll have a downhill walk back to the park. The canyon is absolutely stunning!"
"We really liked the nature at its best attraction in a very natural setting without any Brewster presence. Hiking is not difficult, just go at your own pace."
"This was our second trip to Maligne Canyon. It was a highlight of our previous trip and we wanted to show it to my sister-in-law who was traveling with us. It was not disappointing. We all love the deep slot canyon that is carved out by the river and the numberer waterfalls are it descends. If you are in the mood for a hike, you can see the whole canyon in 6.6 km - if you shuttle cars to the bottom. Otherwise, if you return to the top, the round-trip is over 12 km. Go and see it! It's great!"
A little outside Jasper this is one not to miss. A round trip walk of around 5k will complete 5 of the bridges in the canyon.A quick warning there are several steep areas en route.Give yourself a couple of hours to do 5 bridges. There is a gift shop and restaurant at the car park.
"My biggest regret of our holiday was not spending enough time here, we were caught up on the glacier and if I have a second chance I will come here first thing in the morning and remain for as long as it takes to see everything. I would suggest parking at the 5th or 6th bridge. If parking at the 5th you would need to walk to the 6th and return (approx 3 hours) then continue up to bridge 1. There's a tea room at the top to rest for the return journey which will then be downhill. The bridges 1 to 4 are close together and the scenery more spectacular but bridges 4 to 5 are 2km apart. If you are stuck for time as we were, park at the top, the first car park if traveling from Jasper, & you can at least view bridges 1 to 4. My husband kindly walked back to the car & drove to the second car park at bridge 5 so that my son & I could jog down, stopping many times for photos. Do not underestimate the upward climb though, it is the equivalent to 12 flights of stairs overall, the steepest section of the trail being bridges 1 to 4. We beat my husband to the car park by 15 minutes. We didn't have an opportunity to see the 6th bridge at all. If I had known how spectacular this canyon was I'd have allowed an extra day in Jasper to do it justice. I was so upset that I was going to miss it that I ran 2km. If you knew me you would understand how huge that is, I don't run!!!! Please don't make the mistake I did, don't limit your time here."
"Nice drive and hiking through some spectacular country. Lots of wildlife, we saw some caribou and black bears. Just have to keep your eyes open"
Worth a visit. Easy parking and good photo opportunities. You can walk the first section and then back to the restaurant or hike further if you prefer. Some parts of walkway are slippery.
"It was a really good park, the walkways are close enough to the canyon that you can see everything and does not encourage people to climb the fence for that special photo, really worth the trip, watch out for the Jade bear. :)"
"The parking lot is HUGE and full of cars/campers/motor homes and buses. It turned us off and we left. But then we found somewhere to park nearby and walked in. I was worried it was going to be like a parade of people walking thru the forest looking at water. But somehow, all those other people were not there when we were. Sure there were other people around, but it wasn't like it was crowded. We did Bridges 1 and 2. There are a total of 6 bridges. ( 5 & 6 are not so much amazing water shooting thru narrow canyon as they are wide open river). It was really incredible to see what years and years of the power of water can do."
Quick hike from the bottom parking lot up to the restaurant and back down. Great photo opportunities.
Definitely worth taking an hour or two to check out. The scenery is great and the waterfall is neat. Hiking the paths is a must.
Easy to get to - parking right there. Be careful walkway was very slippery in spots due to the stone. Some beautiful photo spots. Can walk just a bit or take nice hike.
"Layer up, wear good shoes and take water. We spent a couple of hours there and it was worth the time and the hiking effort. Not as heavily trafficked as the sites in Banff therefore more pleasurable. Just a great Canadian day! We started at top with bridges 1-4, then moved car to #6 and hiked the other way up."
Well worth the stop. Hike doesn't have to be long to get great views. See as much as you like. Amazing views.
Lots of stairs and inclines on the way back up. Best to wear hiking shoes. Beautiful plunging canyon
Such a beautiful place! Seeing the way that nature has formed the rocks and sculptured the canyon is breath taking. Enjoy a walk along the bridges but remember the sunscreen and hat! Such wonderful scenery and every turn on the trail is a surprise. Definitely a must to visit when in Jasper.
"We hiked this canyon with our two children (ages 8 & 6). They coped just fine and dandy. We were worried on the way down, because people coming up were looking somewhat weary, it wasn't bad AT ALL! This canyon was absolutely stunning. We hiked as far as the fourth bridge (which is the turquoise and brown trails), super stunning. You can take it as quickly or slowly as you like. Some areas of the exposed rock that have been well worn by the thousands of feet that have graced them are very slippery, so watch your step. You can easily see these as they're almost burnished. Carry water down and stop regularly for a sip on the way up. This is an absolute must stop. An absolutely quintessential lesson in the power of nature. Our favourites were the wedged boulders and the whirlpools. Absolutely incredible. You can do a twenty minute loop (turquoise only loop). We met a few people who did this. But I couldn't help but feel sorry for them, without too much more effort, you can take in a bigger chunk of the canyon. Stunning."
Excellent hike taking no more than 2 hours with a stop at the top for a tour of the gift shop and drinks at the restaurant.
"Get there early to get a parking place then enjoy any length of walk you want - take water, a hat, sunscreen and of course a camera or device that has one to capture the fabulous shapes nature has scupltured. The canyon extends a few kilometres - just when you think you have seen it all, another intetesting vista appears. A must do if visiting Jasper."
"A walk along this canyon was one of the highlights of our trip. We experienced it first as part of a tour of Jasper. The bus parked at the first bridge and we walked a short distance to the 3rd bridge, admiring the deep canyons cut in the limestone by the river. We returned later on our own and parked at the 5th bridge to walk back up the trail for a little more vigorous hike and to experience more of this lovely, deep canyon."
this can be a very popular area but still worth the trip. Come with good foot wear as there is walking involved if you are wanting to see the area.
A good way to introduce yourself to Canadian walks. A gentle fascinating walk up a canyon along a fast tumbling river. Plenty of water falls and interesting features. Well maintained paths. It was rather crowded but not to bad. Dave who we stayed with in Jasper showed us pictures of him walking the area in winter. Wow
"Keep in mind Maligne Lake is about an hour away from the canyon itself. The canyon is very deep, and it was crazy to see how nature carved this piece of artwork over the millions of years. The views here are quite nice and worth stopping over, but be very careful because the exposed fossilized rock can be extremely slippery. I nearly toppled over wearing shoes, so I can only imagine what it would be like with other footwear. The views are worth it and there are several trails for hiking with varying different views. We opted for the shorter path which seemed to have the best value proposition for sightseeing.Please kindly indicate if you found this review to be helpful as it will allow me to better focus my future efforts! Much appreciated - hope you have a great time and safe travels!"
This trail is a Great hike. Beautiful waterfall views! Many trail options to take. Would recommend starting at the 5th bridge vs. the 6th. Can get crowded but very worth it!
Spent about two hours here. Hiked down across all bridges. Great views following the winding river through the canyon. Make sure to notice the multiple rivers coming from the walls of the canyon - water actually coming from nearby Medicine Lake. Gets crowded so best if visited early.
"A must see when visiting the area. It is more of a walk than a hike. Paved trails - I wouldn't be bringing Granny with her walker - but you can drive close to some of the bridges and get out to assist anyone to see some of the views. You are in a canyon - many stairs, sloping ground, tree roots, but lots of hand rails. Many information boards to stop and learn from - no need to rush to the bottom. Bring a camera - many great photos to be taken."
Nice weather will make this great.7 years olds did enjoy the hike and didn't complain much. Have plenty of water with you and a snack. Restaurant is good fries where fresh and taste good.
"A nice stop near Jasper. This is a slot canyon, so you cannot walk into it, but view it from various viewpoints along various trails. It is a beautiful setting and the multiple trails are nice. Impressive falls and deep canyons to view."
"Due to limited parking, you must leave early to see this beautiful canyon. If there is no parking, you can approach the canyon at its terminus and hike in from there. We also had a great picnic lunch under a huge Douglas Fir tree."
Stopped here on the way back from Lake Maligne. Probably didn't give it the time it deserved as it was after a full day exploring the lake
Visited the Maligne Canyon with The Jasper Tour Company its a really interesting place to visit and was glad we did it with a tour
"We are in Jasper for a couple of nights on an organised Saga holiday from UK through to Calgary, Banff, Jasper, Rocky Mountaineer and cruise to Alaska. We visited here on a trip from Jasper. This is a fascinating and amazing place if you like rivers, where this one comes from, where it goes to, how it gets there and the nature around it, which I do. The geology of this canyon is remarkable. The explanation boards all along the path alongside the river are so informative. The path goes down the canyon at the side of the river for around a 1/3 mile downhill. There are six bridges over the length and are varying heights above the river below. We only had time to get down to the top three. Remember water flows downhill, so if you go down the canyon, which is quite steep involving a lot of steps, you have to walk back up,but its well worth the effort."
"Don't miss this must-see location near Jasper. The amazing power of water is evident in the extremely deep gorge with new views around every bend. There are various trails to follow but watch your step over the exposed tree roots and slippery stones from the high traffic on the path. Go early in the day to avoid crowds, especially busy this year due to the free park admission for Canada 150."
"I was amazed when I set eyes on this canyon, none of the reviews I read did it justice, i was just blown away by how deep and narrow it was with such enormous amounts of water flowing through it I saw the bridges in this order : 2, 3, 4, 1, and I recommend seeing number 1 last, it's so impressive. Only one area for improvement: the fossils by the tea house are poorly marked, and the sign says there are more between bridges 1 and 2, but some better signs are needed!"
This is an interesting spot to experience the power of water over time. The gorge is very deep and narrow and can be viewed from a series of 6 bridges. The walk between bridges is short and there are informative signs along the way. There is an option to loop back on top of the hill. No views and not much to see. Go back the way you came! Arrive early in summer as the parking lot fills quickly.
We drove out to Maligne Lake and back early in the morning. Unfortunately it was raining. It did stop raining long enough for us to get out and see the canyon. We also ran across an elk.
"Deep gorge with the churning waters of the Maligne river below, making potholes along its path. 6 bridges in all - can do long walk from 5th to others, or shorter path along 1-4. Lot of steps! Not ideal for wheelchairs."
"We did a round trip to bridge 5. As you get further away from bridge 1&2 it gets less busier and more relaxing, so it is definitely worth doing if you can walk on a few steep inclines. To do the loop you have to go to the 5th bridge and if you need, there are toilets across the bridge in the car park. Take the 7H; this trail is really quite steep so be careful, once up on the ridge there are great views. Overall the start is filled with coach tourists and is packed but if you walk on it is a lot more relaxing and you still get the river."
Visited maligne Canyon today and we decided to take the moderate hike which is moderate. Beautiful part of the national park but he canyon is absolutely stunning. Wild gletsjer water storms down the mountain through narrow cracks in the rocks and is mixed with water from the rocks.
This is a must see you will not be disappointed. You will hike thru the Forrest and see amazing waterfalls and creeks. Very peaceful.
"Maligne Canyon is another must stop along the Icefields Parkway. Again, very busy with bus tour stops, etc. but if you are willing to battle the crowds, it really is an amazing canyon with deep walls and beautiful falls. Huge parking lot, but if you are here in the summer, be prepared to drive around the loops once or twice to get a spot. Big turnover in vehicles and people, so not a long wait. The walk itself is moderately steep but short. Take your time and enjoy the views."
"If you are going to take the Maligne cruise, then you can stop by at this location which is open to public. On the way you might see bears to elks as a bonus. We saw black bear.The canyon itself is scenic and you can do the trail to get a good overview of the canyon and waterfall.Worth a visit if you are in the area. I prefer Johnston Canyon & Athabasca Falls better."
"The water flows down a narrow canyon from the lake, past a building which comprises gift shop, art gallery and cafe. A good lunch stop, offering a range of food, indoor and outdoor dining, beer, wine and hot or cold drinks, views over the canyon and the chance to buy souvenirs"
It is absolutely stunning. I recommend that you get to the parking lot that is at Bridge 1 by 9am to avoid crowds. The trails get a bit more difficult after the 3rd bridge but still manageable. I believe that you can walk all the brdges but you can drive to both 5 and 6. The views from all bridges are stunning.
"If you are in the area, Maligne Canyon is a MUST for everyone! The scenery will blow your mind! It was a great hike and I couldn't stop taking pictures."
You can hear the roar before you see the water which is a good feeling. Long and short walks available and plenty of parking. Well worth a visit on the way to the Lake.
We did the canyon hike quite easily there are not too many steep inclines. We walked from the 1st to the 6th bridge - the 7th was a bit further away and we ran out of time. It was quite busy but it is the main tourist season you must expect that. Definitely time well spent. We saw some beautiful butterflies and wild flowers.
"This is no charge to visit this place and it was a very pleasant surprise when we got there. If you'd like a short walk turn back at either the first or second bridge. If you want a little more challenge go down to the 3rd bridge and of course if you really want to make it a full day there are 3 more bridges to explore further down. There is a lovely tea house at the top of the trail, but it was closed when we were there, but it's in a lovely location and would make a nice resting spot for a cuppa."
Very interesting hiking along the canyon. Feel like this is a must do in the Jasper area! Actually saw some large birds nesting in the canyon walls. Not sure what we saw as we could only see the body and the feet.
"Although this is a challenging walk, as you climb the canyon, the views are spectacular. We usually walk up as a group and have a meal at the restaurant on top. As we visit the gift shop, one person in the group goes down and retrieves the car. The restaurant is a little pricey for deli food, but there are places to picnic, if you bring your own food."
This was absolutely wonderful. We only walked down to the third bridge but quite a nice stroll. Had lunch at their cafeteria - the older gentleman that served us was very nice and the sandwich was delicious with a lovely outside patio with a view on the falls through the trees.
"the falls are well worth going to , to see how the water has cut through the rock, we went on a lake maligne trip and this was on the way, also saw black bears which was quite exciting"
We were driving to Maligne Lake and hopped out to see the Canyon. Millions of gallons of water draining out from Maligne lake/Medicine Lake pass down through Maligne Canyon and carve out strange shapes and perpendicular sides to the canyon. It is worth walking along the guided trail and look backwards up the canyon and note that trees have been left across the canyon in times of higher water levels in spring and winter. We liked the mist rising up from the water in the narrower gauges of the canyon.
Watching the swift moving water will hypnotize anyone. There are several sections of the canyon park so you'll have a chance to see anything from streams to beautiful waterfalls.Be aware that the walkways have uneven places that make it hard to walk in many places.
During the peak season it is worth visiting the canyon early morning or evening to enjoy the stunning scenery as it get busy with coach tours during the main daylight hours.
Great drive in and a sweet spot to pull out the picnic blanket and settle in for some lunch and serenity! Pack a lunch the tea house is over priced and a ??.
"What a fabulous place to visit / lovely walk., stunning scenery
A must visit for all ages and levels of fitness"
"My husband and I stopped at the canyon on our way to the lake. It was so worth it! We got there before the parking lot was filled (around 11am). It was extremely full when we left about and hour and a half later. The hike was along the canyon. Fences kept us from falling in. The views were absolutely spectacular! It was rather steep in places, but all of the paths were paved."
"30 miles out of the way on a one way road, I questioned whether this could possibly be worth it. Definitely YES! The only way to see Spirit Island is by the boat cruise- so book that in advance. I've taken other glacier lake boat cruises and thought I could pass on this one, but there aren't any trails to get to the ""million dollar photo"" spot. Do yourself a huge favor- book the cruise! That's all!"
Very impressive canyon in Jasper National Park. One of the attractions to visit there. Nice views when following the indicated hike (over the different bridges).
"See the beautiful canyon with water rushing, swishing, swirling, bashing along the walls. You do not need to walk far to see and hear the action of water meandering at pace thru the canyon."
"Our guide Alicia from Sun Dog tours was incredibly informative, thoughtful and entertaining! The best guide on all of our adventures. The Maligne canyon is a must see in Jasper."
"This is a gorgeous canyon with a beautiful rushing river--but is over-run by tour buses disgorging thousands of people at a time. It ruins it completely. It is true though that these people only go to the first 2 bridges and leave (but those two bridges are really the most spectacular part)--and the rest of the hike is far less crowded (but still not un-crowded). Anyway, if I were to do it again, I""d go early and hike down ahead of the crowds--it really is a beautiful canyon, and very easy to hike--mostly paved path, all downhill (of course you do have to come back up unless you had someone drop off a car at the 5th or 6th bridge)."
Our group had two cars so we left one at fifth bridge and started the downhill hike from 1st bridge. Very nice restaurant and gift shop at first bridge. It van be slippery after a rain. Some steps are involved. Not recommended for carriages with babies. Beautiful scenery. Deep gorge with lot's of rushing water.
The Canyon is a must see. It is a real sight and involves some walking to see its full length. There are also many walking trails. We started at the main carpark but rather than walking back we chose to return on atrail. Bad mistake. The trails are numbered but poorly signposted so we had no idea how to return. We ended up retracing our route. But for that glitch the canyon is a sight not to be missed and it is a very easy drive from town
"Stopped on the way just to have a look and we were not disappointed. It only takes about 20 minutes to walk around depending on how may stops you make (which could be a few). Great take away shop or sit down and have a coffee, souvenir shop is fantastic and reasonably priced, service was excellent and very friendly"
"We spent about four hours hiking here and actually got a little lost, but we didn’t really mind. The scenery is wonderful, the mountains are all around, and you’re in a forest beside a gurgling stream. When you cross the first bridge from the parking lot, it seems like just a little bridge like you’d see over a small tributary, but go a little further and you’ll discover that little bridge actually traverses a slot canyon that drops several hundred feet below! We followed the trail down along the creek as it traces the stream through wooded and mossy areas, past twisted tree roots, over a lot of small waterfalls and rapids, and eventually widens into a much bigger creek. It’s a beautiful place, and I’d happily go back someday. Across the parking lot, there’s a gift shop, restaurant, and restrooms. While the parking lot is large, it does fill up and parking can become a challenge. I also liked seeing how this attraction draws a wide variety of international visitors, including us."
"One of the most scenic hikes we did was in this canyon.Moderate hikes,beautiful scenery. The highlight was watching a mama bear with her cub,just 10 ft from the trail."
"Do not miss Mother Nature and gravity at work here.
There are lots of bridges over the narrow canyon to
get a good look at water gushing down !! Do not miss it !!"
"This was a fabulous place to visit, great walk along the canyon with fabulous views of the river running through it. A MUST SEE."
"Maligne Canyon is just a 15 minute drive from Jasper and you would be cheating yourself not to see this narrow, deep, twisty gorge being smoothly polished by the torrents of water pouring through it. There is lots of parking and a restaurant/gift shop there.There are many signs along the trail explaining what you are seeing and how it came to be along with a map ging distances and times to do various loops with bridges to cross the canyon in order to return on the opposite side. You can make this trek short or extend it for two miles round trip. Stop here either going or coming from Maligne Lake farther up the road."
"Visited with a 6 year old; and she really liked the way that the water roiled around the pot-holes and rushed through the narrow gaps. From an adult view-point, I really liked the chance to view the water cutting through the rocks - you can see history on display, and see the effects of eons of water cutting its way through rock and creating this canyon. Being able to see pot-holes being formed, and seeing how the water-flow has changed over time to now bypass other pot-holes etc was quite good. Plenty to think about..."
"Very nice place. There are few different difficulty trails there. So, if you travel with a small children you still can see at least a little bit if that beauty by choosing easier trail."
We visited the Maligne Canyon on a cloudy misty day. It turned out to be a great decision. The walk from the parking lot to bridge 3 is about 1 minute. We continued along the canyon to all but the 6th bridge. From each bridge you get a different view-- all of them breathtaking. If you happen to go after or during a rainfall - the paths can be very slippery but still worth the trek. Wear proper footwear - I would not recommend you wear sandals or flip flops.
This was a great hike to do around 4:30pm when we arrived because it was much less populated and the sunshine was just high enough to make the water glisten.
We were told to only go to the first 2 falls. WE took the wrong turn and caught the third falls and it was a killer hike but we made it. They were all outstanding but the third was awsome.. Water is traveling in a slit of the rock 100 ft. down.
"We toured maligne canyon and Maligne Lake with Maligne Tours. It was gorgeous and our guide was so knowledgeable! We saw sheep, elk, and a momma and two baby bears! The canyon is awe inspiring but can be slippery on the smooth stone paths."
"We didn't expect to much of it but it turned out to be a great stop. It's just a small, easy walk to get some amazing views! When visiting with small children, you better leave your stroller in your car though."
I could?t get enough of those canyons as the colours are so intensive and the rocks are so rough. Beside I felt so impressed by the power of water.
Great visit. Very easy to get down to see canyon. You can go further and the results are worth it. Amazing to see the rushing of water through the canyon.
"We started early, 9am, not super early but early enough to avoid the masses. We parked the car over by sixth bridge and started on the 10a hike, which takes you on a small trail on the edge of the Athabasca River. We saw a gaggle of geese along that trail and not a single person. Switched over to 10, which then meets up with trail 7 that follows the Maligne River. There were some spots that were a bit muddy or had big puddles of water, waterproof hiking boots got us through those spots just fine. We took trail 7h after ~1.6 kilometers, which takes you up a bit of a steep hill, the view is worth it, you get a panoramic of the mountain range and you can see Jasper in the distance. The canyon was beautiful. It was amazing to see how years and years of water have shaped certain rocks within the canyon. There are also places were the water is just rushing out of the mountain side, which I thought was crazy. There is a sign that explains how all that works, kinda like a leaky bathtub it says. The roundtrip took us about 2 1/2 hrs, so not too long and plenty of time to go and do another hike."
Such a beautiful canyon with lots of water flow. The canyon at its deepest point is supposedly 182 feet deep. I tend to believe this number after viewing the spectacle. This is a short walk but what views and water force. It is a must see for picture takers.
Maligne Canyon was beautiful. Good for people who like to hike around. There were different doors to walk to fir different views.
"it is a beautiful spot, but it is teeming with people. it was our first stop in Jasper, and a lovely introduction to the geology and natural elements, but wow was it packed. information boards gave interesting history, lots of nice spots for photos, mostly decent paths for less agile walkers."
"We had to check out by 11 and thanks to trip advisor, located this hike. It was a 15 minute drive from the town. It consists of 6 bridges. We parked one car at #5 and parked another at the beginning by #1. The canyon is really next to the first 4 bridges and given the short time coupled by this, we didn't want to have to walk back to the start. Absolutely jaw dropping canyon views and a somewhat easy decent from the start to bridge 5. You have a couple option of routes. It took us about an hour and covered roughly 2 miles. We didn't go to #6 as it appeared to go inland and that would be another KM.No mosquitos!!!!! Can't beat that. Such is the power of moving water. We really enjoyed this and the information stands on the plants, the black swifts and how the canyon formed! If you want to make it long then you can hike from 1 down to number 6 and the walk back up to 1. You can park at bridges 5 and 6 and of course, the start. Always recommend early walks before the crowds."
"What a nice surprise this canyon with its bridges, cliffs and waterfalls was. It is well worth the short trip in from Jasper."
We only got to two bridges. Bridge 1 & 2 and wow. What a sight to see! First of all there is not much walking to see the canyon and it is so deep. We were so happy we made the stop. It has breathtaking views. And it's free. Three levels of hikes. And the easy one is very easy. Highly recommend.
Can you ever get bored seeing wonders of nature!? I certainly don't. Highlight was seeing a nufty intent on capturing the ultimate selfie. Once she clambered over the fence and guard barrrier she climbed a few boulders which were obstructed by a Danger of Falling sign and succeeded in what I presume was a great pic for her Insta account. Canyon itself was magnificent. Use the same principle as every where else and get there early or at the end of the day to avoid crowds.
"We arrived at Bridge 5 and hiked the lower canyon trail up to the Maligne Canyon Teahouse near Bridge 1, and back down. The waterfalls along this hike are spectacular. The lower part -- bridges 5, 4, and 3 -- is less traveled, and definitely worth the time if you are in good physical shape. It is even suitable for families with small children."
"This has to be one of my favourite lakes to visit in Jasper as it is just so big and beautiful! Unfortunately we didn't realise that we could pre-book the Spirit Island tour, so we didn't get to do that! But if anyone is in the area, check if you can pre-book so you don't run into the same problems."
"The canyon is amazing. The walking paths to Bridge 3 are well done with stairs and railings in spots. Many views of the canyon to be seen and it is spectacular. We only walked to Bridge 3. Pretty quick walk, less than one hour spent there. You can walk to Bridge 4 and five but this will take longer. You can also drive to see Bridge 5. Definitely worth the visit"
"This 5 km hike was awe inspiring. The mountains in the background and the rushing river were just amazing.
Medium difficulty but well worth it."
Maligne Canyon is close to the town of Jasper and definitely worth a visit. The easiest hike is the loop to bridge 1 and back. Here you can see the canyon and the falls in about 20 mins without breaking a sweat. If you are more adventurous you can head to bridge 2 and back. This takes about 40 mins and includes a steep hike down to bridge 2 and a tough hike back up if you are not fit. You can hike the whole canyon if you have the time (approx 2 hrs) but there is great scenery at the top if you don't have the time or fitness level to do it all.
"Have gone there repeated times over the years, and the washroom is still ""under renovation"". Hmm. Me thinks the owner does not want tour bus passengers using his bathroom facilities. He seems to have no problem accepting their money though. Makes one think. Have yet to see him smile. Amongst the locals, I have heard that he has been trying for years to sell the place. Perhaps his barking orders at staff, not acknowledging customers, beyond accepting their money MAY have something to do, with people keeping away - or not returning"
Absolutely stunning views! You must see it. Great paths to walk and well marked. Multiple routes to choose to walk. Pet friendly. Take lots of pictures!!
"We went there late morning on a weekday, saw a caribou en route & a black bear right outside the car parking entrance. Compared to Athabasca falls these are narrower but their course is more impressive. No bus tours were there, yet. On our way out there was a que for car parking."
Absolutely a gorgeous canyon. Tough trail for older folks. It was worth the trek but hot. I would not recommend flip flops or sandals.
We spent about 3 hours on our hike there and back. We went to all 6 bridges and saw some of the most beautiful waterfalls. There is no other way to see these unless you hike in. You really feel in touch with nature being here. It was amazing.
"Great place to stop. it did get a bit busy but it was well worth the bike ride from Jasper to see the canyon.
if you are anywhere near Jasper this is a must stop"
"Tremendous beauty and natural splendor, well worth taking the time to see this wonderful sight. Another awesome river"
"We didn't know what to expect at this site. We looked at the map in front of the entrance to the paths through the park and picked one. We chose the easiest one that goes over bridge 1 and 2 and is relatively flat. When we took a wrong turn after the first bridge we went over (Bridge 2), we started to go down a hill. This seemed wrong. When we saw people, much younger than us who looked quite tired coming up the hill, we found out we took the wrong turn. Had we gone left instead of right, it would have been much easier. Although the more difficult path sees more of the canyon than the waterfalls near bridge 1. It is a pretty area."
"It is on the way to Maligne Lake and a must see place. There are six bridges . Upto 3rd bridge you may cover in 30-40 minutes and is not difficult compared to 4th, 5th and 6th bridge.After climbing down to 3rd bridge you get water spray to cool you down and depending on Sun position you will see the beautiful rainbow also."
This is a remarkable place to visit. Impressive views from the paths either side of the canyon. A marvel of nature and well worth the effort required to climb back up to the car park.
We had two cars so we parked one car at the sixth bridge and the other at the first bridge where we started our walk down. A very enjoyable and scenic walk down but there really is nothing of interest between the fifth and sixth bridges and it was where we encountered lots of mosquitoes.
"This paved path is a must see of the slot canyon and falls at Maligne Canyon. You can make this an easy excursion by turning around at the 1st or 2nd bridge or make it tougher by going all the way to the end. Either way, you will see some incredible sites and views of the slot canyon and many falls!"
Great place to visit. Short walk but lots of up and down. Amazing canyon and very deep. Good views from all the bridges.
"Excellent trails. Fun for all. We walked the entire canyon withOur family of 4, our brother in law- his family of 4 and his wife's dad And 3 dogs. Bring water and bug spray Trail doesn't loop around so either pick a spot to turn around or if traveling with a group, I recommend leaving one car at the end and driving back to the start."
just a gorgeous place to walk and view nature's work!!! its wonderful to hear the water rushing through the canyon and see the beautiful falls ..... its incredible to see the power of water
"Maligne Canyon is beautiful and best experienced by hiking in from bridge #6..this way you finish at the Canyon, passing springs and beautiful falls along your hike. The entire hike takes about 2-3 hours. Start early to avoid the crowds that you will encounter at bridge #1."
It snowed while we were there so got to see both summer & winter. It is an amazing place to visit. We were in Jasper 8 days and visited Maligne Canyon 4 times.
One can start this trail in several parking spots. Consider the 5th bridge to walk uphill at the beginning of the hike and downhill on return. Parking at 6th bridge adds a flat and scenic wooded stroll before you approach the 5th bridge trailhead. Most crowds are near the main parking lot on the top. As anywhere in the Rockies... bring your bug spray.
Most people say get here early. We were their around 1 PM and did have to drive around for a parking spot. The restaurant and gift area small but overlook the lake. All the lakes around here are beautiful.
"What a delightful surprise. I had not read anything about Maligne Canyon but decided to stop and take the hike. It was easy and relatively short. Much was through a wooded, cool forest and then when you got to the canyon and river, it was beautiful! Don't miss it!"
"We expected just a short stay, but the site is spectacular, a really deep canyon cut by rushing water, and also fed by the underground cave system that drains the Medicine Lake.There are several bridges across the canyon, and you can pick your length of walk. We only intend to go to Bridge two, but every viewpoint made you want to go to the next, so we would suggest allowing 1-2 hours.A great part to a day out to Maligne and Medicine Lakes."
"This is a must visit when traveling to jasper. The canyon is incredibly deep and the trails are easy to navigate. Very safe, and spectacular."
"As with the Athabasca Falls, this is an awe inspiring demonstration of the power of nature. The Maligne River, flowing from the Maligne Lake, is forced through a very narrow canyon, and while the falls are not that high, the sheer force of water being forced through a very narrow canyon is astounding.Access is easy and parking was busy but spots could be found. There are a range of walks that can be done, ranging from just a couple of the bridges across the canyon, which takes around 40 minutes (depending on how many photos you take...) up to a few hours, which covers more of the 5 or 6 bridges across the canyon. We only did the first two bridges and this gave a pretty good idea of the area. The first bridge did not offer a particularly good of the falls as the canyon was narrow and deep but the second bridge offered excellent views and photo ops."
Beautiful lake and relatively easy hike along the shore. Overlook from highway provides impressive sweeping view of the lake. Definitely worth a look as you travel through the park.
"Maligne Canyon and Maligne Lake must be on everyone's ""bucket list""! This area is simply wonderful, there are endless numbers of opportunities for great photos and wildlife experiences. The Canyon and the Lake are equally fascinating and relatively easily reached on foot.Don't miss these truly beautiful spots when travelling these parts!"
"It simply can't. This is a very unique canyon + waterfalls. If you've been to the Antelope canyon and know how it was formed, then you can witness a similar formation here. I've got lot of pictures and from all the two dimensional pictures and from the view we have in our head, it does not do justice. You have to do this trial. There are 6 bridges and each bridge is the end of a loop. You start from the parking lot and go across each bridge. At that point you decide if you have energy to go to the next bridge or not. Both of us in our late 30's early 40's with 2 kids 4 and 10...city dwelling folks with no hiking in our daily lives. we were exhausted and done by the 4th bridge. 1st and 2nd bridges are the BEST views and can be completed in 15 - 30 mins depending on the pace. The other two start going steeper and steeper and coming back up to the parking lot overall took 1 1/2 hrs. But, a must see with one of the most unique views ever!"
"We drove all the way to the lake which takes an hour, but the scenery was so stunning it seemed like 20 minutes"
Another fantastic place. The sun was shining and again we were amazed at this lovely view. Canada's scenery is second to none. We keep thinking that we've seen everything and it surprises us time and time again.
The hike from the 6th bridge up stream is amazing. It's very busy once you get to the 3rd bridge but there is a reason for that. It is really amazing.
"We did the Maligne Canyon hike and the Johnston Canyon hike and found the Johnston Canyon hike much nicer. The Canyon was pretty but the water level was pretty low so it was not so amazing as see the water run through the canyon at Johnston. The hike is not too difficult. If you have time for both, then it is nice but not something to write home about."
Must do if you are in the Jasper area. Absolutely stunning views of the canyon. Beautiful hike with lots of bridges and nature. Its an amazing area to see.
"We stopped here as part of a 6 hour tour. As such, we were only able to cross one of the bridges. With more time, we would have explored longer."
"The rafting trip with one of the local outfits was one of the highlights of our Canadian Rockies vacation. Our family was 3 generations: grandparents (early 80s) down to the grandkids (youngest at 10 years old). They provided a wet suit, booties, and jacket. We all got splashed, but as long as you paddled you didn't notice the cold. Make sure you cinch up the neck of your jacket!"
it's beautiful .it's will organize place. if you like hiking don't miss it. it's lots parking. it's really busy place. even your little one love to hike with you. I will recommend it for you.
"Off the main road but one of nature's wonders. A bit of a trek and definitely not for the disabled, large amount of stairs and hilly.This attraction is best seen it in entirety, if you allow about 2hours or so and you enjoy a bit of a trek. You will get a little bit wet in certain places, but that is, part of the fun.A must to see on any visit to jasper national park."
We hiked from the main parking area near the first bridge down to the sixth bridge and back. Very beautiful with many photo opportunities. Be sure to go early to avoid the crowds that will surely come. The spacing between each subsequent bridge increases. It flattens out between 5th and 6th bridge and is more forested. Wear shoes with traction to avoid slipping. About 2-2.5 hours round trip.
"The drive from Jasper is short and nice. It is easy to find parking lot. The hiking to all the bridges is nice and not that difficult. We don't have time to go to last bridge. If you don't have much time, hiking around the first bridge is nice as well."
The drive down to the lake is fantastic and we saw brown and black bears during this - the lake itself offers some great panoramas and we also took a boat tour which goes to the other end of the lake and looks at some of the first nations history at spirit island.nice canteen and all walks are explained so you don't go out on a trek over unsyuitable ground.A must if visiting Jasper.
"One of the must see features of the national park in close proximity to the town.
Good facilities and parking, signage and paths to make the most of the attraction."
"Do not miss the walk along Maligne Canyon. Beautiful setting, but come July the crowds do pick up considerably."
We visited this place on a tour. We wish we could have more time to expend here. Is just fantastic we really enjoyed a lot. Please don't miss it!!!!
"I have travelled this road before and had hopes of seeing a lot of wildlife but we came up this time. We enjoyed a stop at the canyon, but were not up to walking (age has caught up at last!). We enjoyed the Parks guide on site who talked about the canyon and had bear skins to show and demonstrated about the animals in the area. The boat trip across the lake to Spirit Island was lovely and the guide and driver were well informed and humorous in their narratives."
"This is along the to and fro Malign Lake and there are approx. 5-6 bridges one can hike to to have different vantage points of the canyon. For avid hikers, it will be a great achievement to go all the way to the top which could take 5 hrs or more. Otherwise, there is still a choice to visit half of the bridges which is more manageable for most and take only max. 2 hours. There is a restaurant onsite where one can have a break and take lunch etc. There are also quite a lot of parking lots available. Some people do bring their dogs along with them and you may chance upon some wildlife ad well."
Brewsters took us on a half day coach tour through Maligne Canyon and we had a great time. The driver was excellent pointing out numerous points of interest and stopping whenever someone saw a bear or other animal. There was also an option to take a boat ride on the lake.A recommended tour.
"We did this visit twice, once on our way to Maligne Lake and once with friends who missed the first trip. Its major interest is seeing how the river so rapidly cuts a canyon in the limestone. So that's best seen by walking downstream from the restaurant end of the parking lot. You could spend days here doing the associated trails, but we enjoyed a half day visit ending with lunch in the restaurant."
This has to be one of the most incredible rock shaping processes it is easy to get up close to. We went in June and there was plenty of water and I could not help thinking that the surprise was not how the water has carved out the wonderful rock formations but how the rocks have stood up to the power of the water.We saw this as part of a bus tour so did not hike but walked for about 1/2 hour and could easily have stayed longer. Every few steps brings a fresh wonder.Easy path and good photo opportunities.Not to be missed
"If you go to Jasper you have to do Maligne Canyon. The big difference between this and Athbesca falls is this more of a real hike. If you do all 5 bridges, it is challenging as it is all uphill on the way back. One thing that is cool is that the trail takes you through the Canyon, goes into the forest, and then opens up to a Meadow with really cool views. It has just about everything. In addition, it isn't as crowded as something like Johnston Canyon. Absolutely worth doing, maybe my favorite hike while visiting the Canadian Rockies. Also stop in the shop and get the sweet potato fries and the Salmon sandwich. :)"
"Surefire place to see black bears and bald eagles. Traffic is a little intense, but worth the drive. Go early to beat the traffic."
"This is an amazing, must-see canyon in the Jasper area. There is some steep walking/hiking but places to rest along the way. The rock formations and the rushing water are breathtaking. Well worth a stop."
"Great stop and it is free. You shouldn't miss this one, it will blow you away. The landscape is out of the world."
"I've now seen the canyon in the winter and summer, both great experiences. In the winter you can walk on the frozen water and in the summer enjoy the flowing water and falls. Dogs on a leash are allowed! There's washrooms, a gift shop and a small food shop. Only complaint was parking for large rvs.. there wasn't any, I went and asked for permission to park in the bus staging area and they didn't have any issues with it. There are hills, stairs and some rock areas with uneven ground, not made for wheelchairs or strollers."
"A circular loop takes you to see the karst, falls and Visitor Center. The path is uneven and goes up and down, but the sights are worth the effort. It takes about twenty minutes."
"This is a great destination. Take some time to explore the immediate area.
It is absolutely stunning. We were there in early June and the power of the waterfall was amazing."
"I hiked around this Canyon ( up to the 4th bridge) after i visited Johnston Canyon and Athabasca Fall and Supwata Fall, not as attractive so I cut short my time there and go on to Medicine lake / Malign Lake boat cruise as I have a tight itinerary. it provides good hiking trails though."
"Don't miss this, very pretty! I was travelling with my parents who are older and so do not hike very far. We went to the third bridge from the parking lot and saw both the Upper and Lower Maligne Canyon Falls. It was a bit much coming back up for them, but we stopped at all the little benches along the way for short rests. Definitely a must see!"
What spectacular views and what an awesome display of the magnificent power of water and erosion......so worth the stop.
"This is a very popular spot and usually has several tour buses in the parking lot. I recommend parking at one of the bridge parking lots and hiking up the canyon. This trail has lots of view points and fences along the banks. Once at the top there is a gift shop, restaurant and washrooms. Then cross the parking lot and hike down on the other side of the canyon. Trail is good with some steep sections. This side is not very busy and has some different views. Hike down to your vehicle. This is worth seeing on your way to Maligne Lake."
"Gorgeous canyon with many trails. Upper loop trail to left is nice and goes from parking lot to cafeteria/ gift shop. Takes 10 minutes. If you cross the first bridge and bear right, you go down to bottom of canyon which is spectacular. Trail loops around back up. I took a pic of trails by parking lot so as not to get lost. 30 minutes with many picture stops . Stop by display for the swift bird which has a nest in the canyon wall opposite display."
We were running out of time as well as getting older so we only did a part of the track. This was still very worthwhile as what we saw was spectacular. If I was younger I would have done more
A bit off the beaten path as opposed to the stops along the Icefield Parkway and you need to allocate 1-2 hours to truly appreciate the stop which we didn't do.
Most amazing views. An absolute must. Lake ok but the Canyon...amazing. Wish we spent hours here and skipped the lake. It is awesome.
Went on part of our Rockies tour and all sights and sounds just seemed to get better daily. This was a great experience and a must do/see sort of place.
"I think this is a great place for a not so difficult hike. We only did a short one coz of time limit, but I think if we have time, doing the whole trail would be very nice."
Take the time to check this out. There are 5 bridges so you can choose your difficulty level. Even if you just do the first three you will get to experience the beautiful falls and surroundings.
"The Maligne Canyon is worth a detour off the road to maligne Lake. The narrow gorge has water rushing through in spectacular fashion in the spring. Erosion is evident and the bridges and trails make for easy access. There are a variety of trails which start here for those wishing to walk further. We went to all bridges but didn't do a longer trail. The word ""awesome"" was heard a lot in Canada and the USA, this gorge comes under the true meaning of awesome."
"Couldn't be more proud as a Canadian what Alberta has to offer .Maligne lake is a must visit if you ever drop by in Jasper .It has lots of option ,you can hike ,canoeing,cruise with beautiful scenery .You can also take a cruise to spirit Island approx 30 minutes from the lake .Regarding the cruise is quite cheaper if you book online ahead of time than walk on But it's up your choice ."
This is an easily accessible site with trekking options for all levels. The walk down is pretty easy but the return journey up tests your heart n lung capacity .
six bridges cross the canyon at various points--each with their own unique view. look for fossils imbedded in the exposed rocks (near the 2 bridges closest to tea house). popular stop for tour buses but usually still doesn't feel too crowded.
"When you go this far, see it all. Beautiful work of God. It is
great to see. God is good! His works are all over this land!"
"Ample parking, indoor restroom facilities, dining, and a number of walks of various lengths - so it is a great place to unwind and stretch your legs and mentally and physically challenge your children. In short a good place to unwind and relax. The waterfalls are beautiful as are the rock cliffs. The short walk along the canyon is handicap accessible."
The Canyon was the first stop on this day trip and we had a short walk to see the waterfall and the gorge which was spectacular we then went on to Malgine lake for a short boat trip. Stapped at medicine lake on return
"We drove about an hour to the end of Maligne Canyon Road to Maligne Lake and arrived around 9 a.m.. It is a beautiful turquoise blue lake, much narrower and intimate than Lake Louise. We took the gentle hike on the right side of the lake and had some wonderful views of the snow filled cliffs above. We ate our lunch at a picnic table by the lake and considered taking a canoe ride, but opted for another hike along the Moose Lake Loop. Stunning forests, well maintained trail, mindfully walking through the forest revitalizes the mind and the soul. By the time we returned to our car, we realized the canoe ride would be for another day. If you are young and fit, you can add hikes along the Canyon. If you are older and slower, enjoy the gentle stoll along the lake."
"This was our first stop on way to Medicine & Maligne Lakes on a day long tour with Brewster. The canyon is beautiful with crystal clear waters. Nice spot for picnics.This spot is accessible through conducted tours or if you you do a self drive, no public transportation!"
"Part of a tour. We had a fantastic, knowledgeable and engaging guide who made our visit very good. Seeing the lake still mostly frozen was good but the views were fantastic."
"What a spectacular hike today through 5 bridges. We recommend arriving before 11 am at the latest on a weekend - perhaps later on a weekday. If you're like us and waded through the web to try to learn more detail about the hike through the bridges and how much time to allot - then this review is for you. We hiked the 7 to 7h trail loop - meaning we started at the main parking and bridge #1 and walked downhill mostly to bridge #5 and then headed toward bridge #6 only to take the Trail 7h Loop back to where we parked. This was exactly a 75 minute trip for us (parking lot to first 5 bridges round trip) and we stopped a dozen times for photo opps and 3 times to rest. We are in great shape and 54 years old for point of reference. The uphill portion of 7h is more high than moderate as the first 1/3 is all uphill and quite the grade at times - but totally doable if you can hike moderate trails. We cannot believe the shoes folks choose to hike in though. Yikes! We then drove to bridge #6 which is easy to drive to, has very little parking (15 spots) and while a very nice quiet place to picnic we were glad we did not add the 3.4 km to our hike. Bring water and bear spray. There is a very large sow grizzly with 2 small Cubs over this way!!! We know as we saw her today with our own 2 eyes. Just be based aware. Lots of folks are in this trail, but still...Go! Enjoy!!"
We toured the Canyon with a guide from Maligne Adventures. Turned out to be a rainy day so we were the only ones on the tour. Our guide provided an amazing tour - even pointing out the tree trunk that showed the bears claws imbedded from holding on to the tree. The canyon is exquisite. The foliage unbelievable and the falls - just can't describe how gorgeous they are. Highly recommend.
"Had a great hike and visit to the canyon! Absolutely beautiful scenery and atmosphere. We hiked bridge 1-4, this was great for us adults but was slightly long and the hike back was a bit of challenge for our four year old. A lot of uphill back to the tea house, for little ones you might want to call it a day at bridge three depending on age and activity level. The only reason I did not give Maligne canyon an excellent rating was because of the bathroom situation. The bathroom in the gift shop and restaurant was either out of order or not available to visitors. Totally fine, I can understand why they don't want everyone using the facilities. The parks Canada out houses were available to us- we used them at pyramid lake(clean) but at Malinge canyon they were beyond disgusting. Given the additional traffic through the parks this year for Canada's 150 these out houses should be given some additional attention."
"We hiked from 5th bridge to 1st bridge. My 7 year old and I struggled up the hill, but we made it. There were some amazing waterfalls along the way."
We spent a great day exploring along the Maligne Road heading to Maligne Lake. The canyon has a hiking trail where you can see many different aspects of the way the water has cut deep into the rock. Very spectacular.
"We loved visiting the canyon. It was an easy walk down to bridge five, you just have to keep in mind that returning to the parking lot is all up hill. Pace yourself. Great vantage points the entire way. Trail is well maintained."
"Nothing as grand as the Grand Canyon, but still a WOW. The power of Nature always intrigues me. Very beautiful and powerful, just a little hard to see all the way down in some places. It is that narrow."
Thus was our introduction to a five day trip in Jasper and Banff National Parks. The canyon is I nice walk with great views of the canyon from various bridges. It's a narrow and deep canyon and very interesting. We did 4 bridges. But I believe there are 6 or 7. The 4 were easy to do and left plenty of time for other sightseeing.
"Maligne Canyon is a beautiful, deep cut rock canyon with a beautiful river pouring through. It's an easy walk from the parking lot to a series of bridges and viewing spots. If this kind of canyon and rushing river weren't so common throughout Banff and Jasper National Parks, it might have made an even greater impression."
"Great hike through this canyon. Walking from bridge to bridge. Rather easy walk. We decided to have a forest path for the way back. Was great, but very steep parts. The view made it worth."
"We got there a little late in the day so the light for pictures wasn't the best. It would be better to get there in the morning. I could tell the colors would be amazing in better light. But, it was a nice little walk from bridge 1 to bridge 2."
"Loved this drive. Lots of beautiful scenery and lots of wildlife. Be sure to drive slow , you never know what is beside the road."
"I walked the trail (7h) down towards the 5th and 6th bridge in cloudy conditions through pine forest which initially had great panoramic views over Jasper, and descended down after this. We accidentally walked further down towards 6th bridge which was quite muddy beside the Maligne river and provided great views of the Rapids. After we turned around and headed back we had more great views of Rapids, wildflowers and the canyon, ensure to use google maps or take a picture of the trailhead to ensure you don't get lost as it can get a bit confusing. And make sure to wear hiking/sturdy shoes if walking in May-June as it will be very muddy. Overall some great views and beautiful scenery, don't let poor weather deter you from visiting this beautiful spot close to town!"
"I don't ever remember so much water flowing through the canyon. Nice rushing water sound.
Always beautiful year round in any weather. This time it was rainy so we treated ourselves to coffee& tea at the tea house near bridge one after our hike."
"This was truly amazing...!! Pretty spectacular depth of the canyon, next time will do the walk as that would have been a highlight too!! Awesome gift shop and great facilities."
"Easy to access the viewpoint and top of the canyon with the option of longer walks, depending on your level of fitness and desire. Millions of years of geology/geography on show. It is right on the road to Medicine and Maligne Lakes so no reason not to visit if you are on the way to those."
"Maligne Canyon is beautiful and interesting. I didn't know much about it before we went, as it was something I saw on the map as a side stop before heading to Maligne Lake. We ended up walking from the 1st bridge down to the 4th (with 2 toddlers) as we kept wanting to see what else awaited us. It is steeper going from 3rd to 4th bridge but has some seats along the way if you need a rest. It is definitely worth a stop."
I did a 15 minute circular walk around the canyon. The views were amazing and the force of the waterfall and river were astonishing. I would advise wearing sensible footwear though as the rocks are very shiny and slippery in parts so it's easy to slip if you are not careful or not wearing suitable footwear.
Beautiful area for some very beautiful camera shots. There was a sense of peace watching the falls in this canyon.
"We stopped here as part of a Sundog Tour of Maligne. The guide walked us around a small loop of bridges 1 & 2 where we could see the amazing canyons dug by the river, some going so far down you couldn't see the water, just hear it. Absolutely stunning. There are guardrails all the way but the terrain is uneven and there are tree roots in a number of places. Some of the trail is limestone which can be slippery, even when it's dry. If you have trouble walking on uneven ground, I recommend you do only a short walk. If you're an experienced hiker in good shape, you can hike the whole canyon. Do stick to marked trails and take water with you!!!!"
A longish drive to the hot springs but well worth it. 4 pools of differing temperatures. Friendly helpful staff. Good value for money
"Takes about 45 minutes to restaurant and about 20 minutes back on the higher track
Very beautiful indeed
Easy walking but with steps
Handrails where required"
"This was our last stop after spending a night in Jasper. It's only about 15 minutes from Jasper (on the way to Hinton). The canyon is stunning, the rock formations are amazing, and the water is spectacular. If you don't have a lot of time or money (for expensive tourist attractions), visit Maligne Canyon. You'll be glad you did."
"It's a nice easy walk to do but that also means it's a busy walk too. If tourist nature trails are a thing then this is one. Lots of people taking private tours, with most people making it to the falls and heading back. It's always beautiful to see nature like this, especially so much many things in one go. There are also lots of info boards which is great if you aren't up on your geology!"
"Reached the canyon late at night, so we only walked a short distance at the 2nd bridge. But we were already awed by the sight of the gorge we saw! Would like to explore the rest of the canyon on another day."
Loved this walk. So beautiful. Will be back to explore more in the future and many years to come. ***********
"This was an easy and fun trail, walking along the rushing water in the canyon. What pleased us the most was the panoramic view from the 7h trail. I would suggest to walk around the canyon first through 7 an 7f. Then right before you get back to the parking lot, take the short hike along 7h. It is along a steep hill side. Be careful. After maybe a few hundred meters of hike, you will be rewarded with the great view of Jasper."
Nice walk. Beautifull sights . Easy to do. Not to much climbing. You can do different walks from a short stroll to the long walk and that 's about a 3h walk.
The river formed a very unique and interesting canyon. There are paved walkways in and around the canyon. Some very short walks and others much longer. Many are loops that can be added to or deleted from your choice for the walk. There are many good photo opportunities. It was peaceful in early May but I imagine it would be very busy during the high season. There were several bus loads of travelers when we were there and there was plenty of parking for many more buses.
"Well makes trail along the canyon with educational boards explaining the history, wildlife and flora in the area. A moderate walk, there is a slightly steep part at the beginning but otherwise any steep parts have steps. A surprisingly good restaurant at the top with very chatty staff and good, reasonable food."
"Beautiful natural canyon, amazing to see today as the water was high and therefore very strong flowing."
Drive 20 minutes out of Jasper towards Edmonton for a great little hike and a surreal canyon experience. There are several trail choices depending on your time and ability.
The walks here allow you to see how the water has eroded its way through the rock with old whirlpools and channels as well as the present falls with the meltwater powering its way through. Wear good footwear and have a warm windproof jacket since the wind can be very sharp in spring.Nice café with gift shop to warm up with hot chocolate afterwards!
"We did a half day tour of the Canyon with Sundog Tours, arranged by our travel agent. Our guide, Fred, was totally brilliant was deep knowledge of the park, its animals and the geology. It was a reminder that if you just head off and look yourself, you will have a great visit but an experienced guide not only knows just how to give you the best with the right places to photograph but all the background to make a fascinating visit."
"This is a great spot to see how the river has carved it's way through to make the canyon. Even if this doesn't interest you they have a restaurant, gift shop and wash room near the main lookout."
"Took a long drive to get here from Canmore, but it was worth it. A beautiful, restful place. Lots of scenery and wildlife to see on the way too. Highly recommend."
We didn't find this visit particularly worthwhile. The Athabasca Falls walk is superior. On the other hand it is a nice walk and not very difficult unless you decide to go deeply into the canyon.
"Spent a lot of time driving around lake Maligne and the canyon and found it very pleasant. Stunning scenery throughout, although disappointingly no bears seen, despite everybody we spoke to saying it was likely they would be spotted. Never mind, a very pleasant drive on a lovely sunny day."
We were on our way to Maligne Lake when we decided to have a quick stop at the Canyon. It's very cool and worth the stop. There's also a cafe and shop here.
"Came ill-prepared to visit Maligne Canyon, following some snow and a drop in temperature. Managed to walk a little way along with the thunderous force of the water for company. Saw how water has eroded and made for nice rounded pools. Will definitely visit when we return in the summer. If we had better foot wear would have walked further."
Can take a short walk to view the canyon with rushing water and falls or experience longer hikes. There's a lodge with restaurant and unique gift shop.
Always great to walk from 5th bridge to the tea house. Endless views in the canyon. A favourite place for sure. Options to start at the tea house or explore as much of the canyon as you like
Walk to the first bridge to see the waterfall. It's a short walk that we missed the first time. An easy stop to make!
"The first fall is about a 5 minute walk down a not too steep hill. You view it from a bridge. The whole trail, if you continue should take aprox. 2 hours and follows the canyon with multiple bridges crossing. We did up to the 4th bridge before turning back. It was about 40 minutes and a bit of a challenge but should be doable for most people."
Good rainy day activity. But if you hate mud it's not for you. It was very nice. We walked from the fifth bridge and walked to the teahouse then walked back.
Great views to see while hiking with my family!. One of the great places to see when visiting Jasper.
"As a regular visitor of Johnston Canyon (Banff), I was excited at the prospect of checking out a new canyon hike. In comparison, this hike allows for multiple hiking trails - short, medium, and long. The hike is not difficult, and each trail offers different sights. We parked by the 5th bridge and went up via the 7f; after arriving at the top, we came back down via trail 7. The canyon has many informative signs along the way, and the depths of the canyon are lovely. It was definitely well worth the visit."
"We spent a great Sunday afternoon hike at Maligne. Started at sixth bridge and walked up, it took about 1.5 hour, with stops for water and photos. Make sure to go in to the Tea house for a snack. Delicious treats, ice cream, cold drinks. The girls they have working there from Germany are fantastic hostess'."
"Great place to stop and stretch the legs. Great views, but a bit too crowded to my taste. Still nice to see a canyon while traveling through the Rockies"
The canyon is worth the extra effort. Level of difficulty would be 3 out of 5. The canyon has a special beauty.
Breathtaking view of a deep gorge between narrow rock cliff's. Easy to walk on trail with handrails which make it easy for senior citizens. Take your camera.
we've hiked the canyon both in summer and winter. Each season has it's own beauty. This place is definitely worth visiting
We started at the Teahouse and hiked to the Fifth Bridge and back. Make sure you don't miss the First Bridge as the falls there are spectacular!
"Go across the bridge and park near the tea house its a shorter version than the longer one but still rewarding,can be steep in some sections but is paved and in the steeper sections stairs have been placed.Well worth the effort."
"If you like water, waterfalls, rocks, nature combined with a lovely gift shop and snack bar this is perfect.There are mutiple waterfalls so you can he wowed many times. The walk is about 2-3 hrs depending how many pictures you take and how long you stop to have a tea/coffee. The power of water to create this canyon has to be seen.The walk is uneven and involves quite a few stairs but is well worth it!There is a shorter version if you park near the teahouse."
This is such a beautiful walk. The view is stunning. A bit of a drive but well worth it in the end. my kids loved it.
"Go to the tea house just past the bridge to park, then there's a map showing the various hikes you can take based on your time. Short quick hike will get you a good overall view of the canyon, creek and falls. Not so easily accessible for wheelchair bound folks but the tea house deck is a nice place to wait if others go on the hike."
Started the walk at the first bridge with the intention of just completing the easy section but the canyon was so stunning that over an hour later we had reached the 5th bridge. Also made use of the restaurant facilities which were very clean and serviced by very helpful and friendly staff.
Snow has melted enough to get out and explore! I've never hiked the canyon before and it was better than expected! Well marked trails and maps and breathtaking views at every turn. Will go back with my kids for sure.
Another of jaspers many wonders. A great place for a moderate to light paced walk. Lots of nature's beauty and wonder to delve into here. I have been here in the winter when there is no water flowing through the canyon and in the summer when the canyon is full. Both are equal in beauty but different in that you can walk inside the canyon when the ice has fully frozen.
"Nice tour very picturesque, maligne canyon and maligne lake, passing medicine lake en-Route, recommend self drive as you get the full serine effect if the group is small.
Visited early may and the Lake was still frozen."
Initially didn't think was worth the trek but eventually decided to go for it. The initial trek is all downhill - which meant it was all uphill back. The trek itself is quite easy in terms of there are stairs all the way and lots of stopping points along the way to take photos as you go. We didn't go all the way as we found the last stop was adequate and nothing to be gained going any further. The climb back was brutal so we took it easily and rested several times along the way. It was certainly worth the effort...
There is walking trails to see the canyon and lots of parking. Great thing to see while in Jasper and close to town
There are some walks around the canyon for young and old. There is an easy 15 to 20 minutes walk with great views. There is also a gift shop and a coffee area
"Maligne is just a short drive out of Jasper townsite, and well worth it. We went to the main part of the canyon, and then made our way down a ways. Very beautiful, worth the 23 ""flights"" of stairs (according to my Fitbit) back up to the main entrance."
"I did. Really, really sick, due to high levels of contamination in the water (this was water from the tap in the restaurant restroom.)"
Park your car up by bridge 1 and prepare to be amazed as you descend thru the deep and winding gorge. The route takes you all the way to bridge six but you can turn around at any point. If you make it to the bottom you can return by a higher path which offers great views across the valley. The walk is quite strenuous coming back up but we took our time and we're fine!
The drive is along a very well designed highway with beautiful views to both sides. Sights are well marked. A natural forest fire a few years ago started the normal forest renewal - not so pretty but totally necessary.
Spectacular views. Breathtaking scenery. Trails are great for hiking and easy access. Trails are rated for all hikers. From easy to hard. Great for family hikes. Picnic areas. Just hangout and enjoy the mountainous views all around. Canyons are very extraordinary.
"I have lost count of how many times I have been to this location. In summer, its quite busy and parking can be difficult to find but its so pretty inside the canyon. The walls of the canyon are covered in moss and you'll get a lot of misty spray around the falls that are closer to the walkways. In some spots the canyon is 30-50 metres down and you can see the intense swirling action of the water cutting away at the rock. In the winter, you can walk inside of the canyon on the ice. Make sure to wear ice pick footwear for the best experience. The first time I went with a guided group. It was super informative and the ice cleats were provided to us. It was worth the money, but I have since gone solo (other people there of course) to be able to take my time. There are signs all over reminding you that you are entering at your own risk. Bring your camera of course and a bottle of water if you plan are staying for a decent amount of time (its super easy to lose track of the hours in a place like this). There is a lot of history between Maligne Canyon, Medicine Lake and Maligne Lake. It's worth doing a quick internet search to get a basic history lesson before visiting just to fully understand the magnitude of whats under your feet while you're there. Definitely recommend any time of year."
A great hike up the valley and well worth taking a half a day to do the hike. Go to the lowest parking lot early for parking and to get on the trails before it gets really busy. A very busy hike as you get closer to the top and it does get much busier.
"We just drove in, read the info signs then walked a short distance to view the canyon walls, its free and I would love to go back for a proper hike."
Your mountain getaway is not complete until you take a walk about here. bring good walking shoes as there can be many places that are not meant for sandals
One can see lovely fits formation of rock ...Its amaxing to see how water has carved its way down into canyon and have made such beautiful grooves in rocks ..a great stop for pictures ...
The s Maligne Cannon is a great place to visit as you can vary the length of the walk according to time and level of fitness. The Cannon is a beautiful sight
"Maligne Canyon is beautiful. It's a nice, easy hike with incredible views. Walking beside the canyon for an hour or so is so peaceful. You can see how the water has carved its way down into the canyon over millions of years and made the rock smooth and grooved. In peak season, it can be busy with tourists but is still worth it. In the winter you can do the Maligne Canyon ice walk and actually walk on the frozen water down in the canyon. It's incredible and I highly recommend this if visiting in the winter. You can also ice climb in the canyon. Take a stop at Maligne Canyon gift shop for a piece of Galal's baklava (the rest of the good is not great there) and check out the gift shop and some of the First Nation, Inuit and Metis artwork on display and for sale. If you're lucky, you may see lots of big horned sheep or mountain goats as they like to hang out up that way."
"Being fascinated by transitions, spring in the Canadian Rockies is a feast for me. Easy driving along Icefields Parkway, changeable weather casting shadow and sun on the bold landscapes add to friendly stress-free visitor services. Maligne Canyon is a short drive and easy hike from Jasper. The narrow twisting waterway in the heart of the canyon is still frozen but the birds and small forest animals know it is spring. It is a great time between ski season and the full onslaught of summer travelers."
Beautiful views in got to learn a lot about the area by way of this signs and the maps that were all over. Love the little chipmunks as well as the beautiful views.
"Some of the most incredible sights I've see anywhere in the world. It's hard to capture the experience and memory on camera as depth perception is not there.It's deep, it's curvy and it's cool. Expect to spend 2.5 hours if you want to hike the entire thing. Breathtaking."
"We went early April, 2 adults and 2 kids (9 & 11) and walked down from the visitor area. As everyone has mentioned it is very slippery. We made it OK with just our hiking boots - but had to take care with footing along the way. The path should be fine by now as it was starting to melt when we were there. We were able to access the canyon downstream of the 3rd bridge, and there were fantastic frozen waterfalls. Very scenic walk down the canyon from here to the 5th bridge car park. Would be amazing in any season but I think the best would be mid winter."
"I have seen Maligne Canyon in the winter and now in the spring. In the winter, ice cleats are a must! I wore older winter boots and I slipped many times. However; there are rails almost the whole way so I made it. During winter you will see great ice falls and in some areas, you'll see people climbing the frozen waterfalls with giant hooks. This spring we visited the canyon again and this time saw waterfalls as well as some still frozen ice falls. The hike was much easier this time around. I think this place would be lovely in the summer."
"It's a little bit tricky to find the entry to this walk, but it's great if you found them. You can go this trip with young childs without any problems. We saw a black bear in this area with one little black bear. Not so many people walk this way, this was also nice. So it's a good option for a short walk on the way to Maligne Lake."
"I visited the Canyon solo in the earlyMorning in April and had a great time. I wanted to walk on the frozen canyon bottom but wasn't sure how to access the canyon floor - I quickly realized that you can't do this from the visitor centre area as the canyon is around 50m deep at this point but you do get some great views from the bridges, (1 & 2) were the two I visited.Disclaimer - you must have spikes as it is very slippery in the canyon floor and doing t without spikes would be irresponsible and unsafe. Also it is recommended you go with a guide in case of any issue.To be honest even just walking around on the footpath was difficult without spikes so I highly recommend you get a pair before coming here in winter.I next drove down to the 5th bridge car park and started walking up the canyon pathway to find how to access the canyon bottom... after the path climbs up about 1km it gets close to the canyon bottom again. There is a waterfall on the opposite bank and it looks as though you can access the bottom from there - which you can but you cannot go very far up the canyon as there as it narrows and is impassable. If you carry on another 300m there is a gap in the wire fence where you can climb through (just on the other side of the narrowed canyon) and you can access the canyon bottom easily and walk up it to a large set of waterfalls, about 300m. You MUST have spikes, it would be very dangerous and slippery without them. I also imagine that earlier in winter you can access a lot more of the canyon as the melt was already underway and there were a few areas where seepage was happening so I'm not sure how much longer you will be able to access the canyon - but for sure you do not need to go with a guide, it's very accessible if you have the right gear.Be safe!"
We really enjoyed our moderate hiking trail of this beautiful canyon. We hired some crampons to help navigate over the icy patches and managed to reach almost all of the bridges. The waterfalls had iced over in the canyon and looked amazing. We really enjoyed the beautiful views and managed to stop several times to enjoy the breathtaking senery.
"This place is amazing. Been there in early spring, so everything was pretty much frozen, making spectacular scenery. I would recommend using spikes in the shoes, as the trails are very slippery. I was not able to finish the trail through all the bridges due to not having the appropriate equipment. That's why I am coming back for sure!"
"If you're in Jasper, don't leave without checking out this canyon. It's not far out of town, maybe a 30 min drive at the most. Takes between 2-3 hours total to walk down to the canyon and explore. Multiple trails surrounding, so you can switch up how you exit if you want, or hike around the canyon if you have interest."
We were here on April 13th and most of the water was frozen and the stream very weak. Despite this our hike was amazing and still beautiful to see the waterfalls frozen. We parked at the 5th bridge and walked all the way to the tea house at the main parking lot. The hike was not to bad but if you have reduced mobility I wouldn't recommend since there were some steep hills and a few stairs. If you park at the main lot were the first bridge is you can walk down a straight path with no stairs and still get an amazing view since the first bridge was by far the most impressive. There are washrooms open year round but the main building with tea house and gift shop was not yet open. There was no sign stating when it opens but we could see staff doing training so I would imagine they will be open in May. Overall I would recommend to see it in winter but I'm sure it will be way more impressive in the summer when the water is at full strength.
"Imagine walking on water in a deep canyon, Yes it was frozen however wonderful.
Appropriate foot gear ""spikes"" are highly advised."
The tour guide was great. Excellent time had by both adults and kids aged 7 & 9. Have already recommended to friends and family.
"Maligne Canyon is a nice spot to visit and has a good path with stairs (during summer/fall).
We visited off season and it's snow covered and icy so proper footwear is a must.
A nice walk but not a priority spot to visit."
"Malinge canyon is a beautifull place, I have been there in summer, it's cool. The hike is easy. Can be bussy by times. There's still place to rest and just look at the waterflow. My friend just send me pictures of iceclimbing in winter. Looks awesome."
My husband and myself hiked this canyon this weekend. It was absolutely beautiful. He trail is still really icy so bring ice cleats and have a blast!
"Did the tour with Sundog tours - although this seemed expensive at the time, it included boot and cleat hire - these are absolutely essential, pick up from the hotel and a pleasant, very talkative tour guide - Alisha who took us through the canyon safely, at a time of year when melting, means bits fall into the canyon later in the day. Amazing photo opportunities by the ice waterfalls, on a relatively short / easy hike which was OK for unaccomplished hikers like us."
This tour was very informative. We did the top trail and it was quite a climb back up from the canyon. As we visited in April the snow was beginning to melt and the floor of the trail was starting to become muddy. The tour provided you with boots and ice cleats. Good value.
"Although a hefty walk, the views are amazing, We booked a guide with sundogs. the frozen waterfalls were fantastic. It was very slippy and would defiantly recommend renting ice cleets."
"Beautiful Scenery! Can not wait to DO the WINTER MALIGNE CANYON WALK!!! Bring lots of water, It does still get quite warm . Take breaks when needed!"
"A trip to Jasper should really incude a stop at Maligne Canyon! Its quite a hike, and may not be suitable for the very young, or elderly, if you are planning on doing more than looking at the canyon. Beautiful in the summer or winter"
"Did the ice canyon walk during the last week of March. Great experience, some amazing views. We booked our tour with Sundog tours, only way we would do the hike, much safer than trying to do it on your own, especially in winter. Chuck our guide was very informative, pointing out many different interesting tidbits. The pictures you'll get in winter are incredible. Hike can be a challenging, if needed, take your time."
It's truly beautiful to see the walls covered in frozen waterfalls. Be careful the trails are slippery I highly recommend the shoe cleats Getting to the bottom of the canyon is absolutely amazing and lots of fun sliding down the frozen river.
"We went to Maligne Canyon yesterday cause my wife already went there 2 months ago and she kept talking how amazing this place is... and she wasn't lying. What a great view!!From the bridge, on top, its really impressive, but if you go down between the 4th and 5th bridge a believe, there's a breach into the fence, and you can actually go down into the Canyon... BREATHTAKING !!Even tho you can pay for a guide and get a professionnal, we decided to take the dog with us and go down be ourselves. At first, our puppy wasn't too sure about it, be she had a good time for sure once we got at the bottom. You need to cross a little bridge made of wood, which i really enjoyed, and right after that you can admire the giant frozen waterfalls. It totally worth it!!Make sure you have some boots with studs, cause its pretty icy on the way down!"
"Awesome view! In winter, pack studded footwear and any other appropriate equipment because the trails may be icy."
"This is a beautiful walk, and definitely worth it.No need to go with a guide. We hired cleats from town for about $10 ea which were not essential, but definitely made life easier, as it is slippery down on the ice and on some slightly steep snowy paths along the edge of the gorge. At least having a decent pair of boots is recommended. Once you walk along the gorge and down the hill there are a couple of points where it is easy to duck under the fence and walk along the ice in the gorge. We were probably out for 3hours with plenty of time taking photos."
"It took us 1 1/2hours to make it from the 6th bridge to the 5th and back with children 7,11 and 13 so I would avoid doing the whole hike to the summit as there's no turning back! That being said it was an amazing hike with so much beauty along the way. Mother Nature provided us with some sun, rain and slush which my children loved! We went back to our vehicle and drove to the top lol! The canyon was deep from the 2nd bridge but my kids weren't that impressed as there was no water. We didn't hike from here to any other bridges because we were tired!"
"This is one of my favourite go-to adventures in Jasper ... especially on a rainy or cloudy day when the mountains are socked in. The views are all down here, so heavy cloud cover doesn't affect the wow-factor at all. Take your time, park at the top, hike down with a lunch, give yourself time to rest on the hike back up. Visit the gift shop and restaurant for a bite to eat after the adventure. I go both in summer and winter (in the winter you can walk along the frozen river bottom). I take much longer on this hike than the distance warrants because I take a lot of photos along the way."
The canyon is a must see if you come to Jasper. Strongly recommend taking a tour. We saw people who got lost and who were not wearing cleats. Simply crazy.
"Had an excellent winter hike at Maligne Canyon - if you have your own crampons and some hiking ability don't be talked into taking the guided tour, very accessible on your own and save the $75. Even Parks Canada is trying to sell people on guided tours there. Was beautiful views from the top and the bottom of the Canyon, you can see the ice layers from below when the river is frozen. Took about 2.5h return at a average pace."
"This is a nice little hike to do. Make sure to come prepared, since some areas where quite icy. Overall would definitely return."
"Brought our 3 and 5 year old kids. Lots of fun, did the whole canyon in about 3.5 hours. Very icy. Bought some boot grips in town the next day for our trip to Athabasca falls, wish we had them for the this walk. Started at 5th bridge and hiked to top. Left family at top to eat lunch and walked 4.5km back to start on road to get the vehicle (1 hour walk)."
An easily accessible site and must see attraction when visiting Jasper. Maligne Canyon is true marvel of nature!
If you have the opportunity to take a Canyon Crawl it is a once in a lifetime experience unless you return. Having visited in the summer months it is so cool to be able to go walking down in the frozen waterfalls. Be sure to have on Ice grips in order to fully explore the canyon without too much difficulty.
Great day hiking the canyon. Rent ice cleats for under $10 from a local shop and have fun exploring the canyon. You can stay on the trail or in winter go along the river or explore inside the canyon on the ice.
Walked along the Canyon floor. Very cool to see the Canyon from the bottom instead of the top as one does in the summer. It will not be safe for much longer as there was lots of open water and melting going on.
My girlfriend and I really enjoyed this walk. Our guide was informative and attentive. The walk lasted about 3 hours and was roughly 4 km. They provided warm boots and traction devices which I can't remember their names. It's not a really hard walk but there were some challenging spots. The ice covered falls were beautiful and the mountain views were amazing. I see this being a yearly event.
"This stunning series of narrow and deep gorges was created over eons by the rushing waters of the Maligne River, eroding the soft karst limestone in its way. We were there only briefly in the summer but were impressed also by the well designed and executed series of pathways, bridges and safety fences. It looked like tourists, walkers and hikers could find their own levels of activity."
You can spend 1-3 hours easily walking along different paths to follow the canyon and river.You can walk through the bottom of the canyon if your careful.Great time of the year as everything is covered in snow and ice..
probably the best way to appreciate Maligne Canyon is to start with a drive up to Maligne Lake. The lake is as picturesque as it gets with huge mountains in a gorgeous wilderness. The lake outlet starts flowing north but the flow gets smaller and smaller until it disappears leaving a dry creekbed much of the year. Then it comes blasting out of holes in the side of the canyon! The canyon area itself is a nice walk and the chance of seeing goats or elk on the way up from the Yellowhead is good.
"I have been to maligne canyon both seasons and both were completely different! In the summer me and my partner went on our bikes from downtown and the ride up was beautiful but once we got to the top it was stunning and well worth the ride! Then in the winter a friend and I did the canyon walk during the day.OMG what a difference. I thought nothing could come close to the summer experience but boy was I wrong! Our guide was incredible (sorry I forgot your name) He was very knowledgeable caring and patient. But the whole trip was incredible just knowing we were walking on the bed of river covered in ice/seeing the fossils from years gone by/ looking at how deep the river in the summer truly is/ and the cave behind ice that we got to sit in was wonderful! Thank you so much to our guide, I will make a huge effort to find you next winter as your knowledge, guiding ,sense of safety and sense of humour and "" Maligne Canyon In The Winter"" are all a MUST DO!!!"
"This is a wonderful attraction in the winter, and you really do need the footwear they provide (tall, waterproof boots and cleats), rather than hiking this on your own. It is also extremely helpful to have a guide who knows the history of the site and how to best navigate the terrain, especially to keep you from getting wet! Great job, Sundog!The scenery is stunning from the rock formations, to the various icefalls, and just beautiful, snow covered plants--it was absolutely gorgeous.The only reason I gave this tour a 4 instead of 5 is that: (a) it is physically more strenuous than is described and (b) there was not enough time to stop and grab photos of some things I'd have liked to. While the description says it is mostly downhill, that is definitely not the case, so be prepared. And while we did stop at the major sites along the hike, there were some other places that would have been nice to linger for a bit, but we were on a pretty strict schedule. So the pace was not great for me, but if I had to do it over again, I definitely would, as it's a beautiful and unique experience! Do bring hand and foot warmers. :)"
Stunning frozen walk. A must do if visiting during the winter and the river is frozen. This can be a solo excursion although I do not recommend it for safety reasons.
"It's a must see! Gorgeous place, outstanding views! We went in the winter time so I highly recommend wear proper shoes ( waterproof) because the stairs gets really slippery and dangerous. There's ice everywhere and if your not extremely cautious you will fall."
"Park at the fifth bridge and then take a short walk pat the open river and walk on the ice all they way up to the end......make sure you have spikes or at least yak tracks on your boots, and and trekking poles if you have them....beautiful ice falls and waterfalls.....worth going to see!"
"We visited the ice canyon as part of a ski club trip. Sun Dog Tours handles us with transportation and guides. We walked through the rocks carved out by the water over many years, the tour took ~2 hours and was strenuous in places. Well worth the time and price!"
"Hiking the Maligne Canyon is beautiful, not only in the summer but also in the winter. Frozen falls, quiet trails
Absolute hike worthy"
The place is beautiful and it is great for families with young kids...just bring good boots for slippery areas
It's simply stunning. It was bitterly cold for an Australian but the sheer beauty is amazing. Wear lots of warm waterproof gear. Don't forget chains or spikes if it's snowbound.
"Great for a circular walk, spend an hour or half a day with nature and you will be relaxed and tired."
"Beautiful spot!!! Highly recommend getting a guide to fully experience the canyon. If not, make sure you have water proof boots, and cleats if you go in the winter!"
Love maligned canyon walk and the incredible native works of art in the upper gallery. I try to choose a different month everything I go and it's always stunning and breathtaking.
You can spend a few hours here we did it in the winter with a kid keep him close by. its really icy take your time ice cleats recommended.
"Good signage explains how the canyon was formed, fossils and more. A short walk gives you the opportunity for epic photos and then return to the visitor center for a great gift shop and cafeteria restaurant."
We had a wonderful tour through Maligne canyon Ice walk with Lutz. We were lucky to have clear weather after a drizzly morning. First Lutz took us into town to be fitted with waterproof boots and spike for the ice walking. Lutz was very informative of the formations that we passed through. He managed to find the safest and less strenuous route for the walk always pointing out any hazards. We were in awe of the speculation scenery of snowy mountains and then speculation ice formations. He show real enthusiasm for any questions we asked. Best walk we have had in Canada so far. Everyone should add this speculation ice walk when in Canada. Would love to come back to see it in summer.
This place was amazing. There are several walks/trails You can do. I would recommend walking off the path as you get to see a lot of the canyon. People were ice climbing and you can walk through the canyon where in the summer water would be running. There's also a small cave you can you through which is hard to find but pretty cool to do. Would 100% recommend this to anyone visiting jasper. On the drive up we saw a pack of coyotes which was pretty cool
"We stopped here as part of our Gate 1 Travel tour between Banff, Lake Louse enroute to Jasper, Alberta."
We took the bus to spirit island. On the way we stopped to see Maligne canyon. Our tour was informative and lovely.
"We were the only ones there this morning when we first arrived. Beautiful in the snow with cool looking ice. We only walked around the top as we are in our seventies, but people do walk up the canyon. Since there was fresh snow, it was safe to walk when we were there, but could be a challenge if icy."
"The Inn & Suites recommended we go out for the IceWalk tour. We did it our last day. It was amazing! Plus, only the two of us we're on the tour... wonderful! Definitely recommend going on the IceWalk tour of Maligne Canyon:)"
"Drive to the parking lot right at the canyon (not the one at 5th bridge which is a longer hike that could also be nice), then walk from the 1st bridge to past the 3rd bridge - there's a way to access the canyon floor from there (warning signs that say at your own risk, guides are recommended). Heavy duty cleats with decent spikes (not studs) definitely needed in winter. Amazing to walk along the frozen canyon floor and river bed, and to get up close to the frozen weeping walls. Very few people in winter which was great. We were very careful and didn't wander further than we felt was safe - we saw some people ice climbing who ventured further than we did (because they did not have to backtrack as they were climbing out the walls) so we felt reasonably confident walking where we did - even so we made sure to walk along the banks where we could, to avoid cracks, walk in single file spaced out, and watched carefully where we stepped on. At one point there was a small round hole in the river bed ice which when we looked through it, we saw the ice layer we were walking in was pretty thick, but suspended over nothing (not sure how high but can't have been that high) as the bottom layer must have melted away.This would not be a place for snap happy people not looking where they were going, as the warning signs attest to. Overall a brilliant, unique experience and fairly easy hike of around 2 hours."
I visited Maligne Canyon with my family during winter. We were lucky enough to go with a tour guide who kept us safe throughout the entire walk and educated us on how the different ice and limestone formations were created. Maligne Canyon is a beautiful and cold experience! There are giant icicles and pterodactyl nest. It can be a bit dangerous so I would definately recommend going with an experienced tour guide who knows the Maligne Canyon well.
Recommend for the spring and summer It's a light hike with a few steep sections that shows of some local geology as the water has carved its ways through the canyonThere is a nice restaurant there and lots of rest spots on the small hike
The lake is great with a spectacular view. Place is good for all ages and groups.There are some water attractions that are nice and fun to do but they are not cheap (have that in mind and check before you go). We spent almost a day there as we did picnic.
really enjoyed the tour of the canyon. I had to huff and puff to get up some of the paths but well worth it once I got there. Going back home was mostly down hill and nice easy walk.
"We took Sundog tours' guide trip and loved the awesome and unique formations of the canyon. The Ice floor, the frozen waterfalls, it was all great."
"The ice walk in to the canyon was an optional activity on our coach tour with Travelmarvel. What a treat!! The excursion was well organised and we were provided with the best of the best in guides ""Wes"". What Wes didn't know about this region wouldn't have been worth knowing. He took us on a splendid walk sharing his knowledge along the way and delighting in the many regular photo stops we all wanted to make, accompanied with the many and various questions we had about this stunning piece of Alberta. At his advice, we can't wait to go back in June to experience the canyon in summer when the flowers, the running water and the bears are out in force."
"I visited this area first as part of a tour in late summer, then again on a solo hiking trip, then again in the winter for the ice walk tour. This is a magical, beautiful area that you should not miss out on! Trails are available for all levels of physical ability, some well paved, others more challenging. One day is not enough for the curious hiker/photographer. You will have some stunning photos without a doubt."
There are far less tourists at Maligne Canyon in the winter than the summer. The frozen falls in the deep limestone canyon are very pretty and worth the short hike.
I did not expect much before going there as this place is not well advertised therefore did not have high expectations. But once there it was just breathtaking. Definitely recommend!!!
"We took the Maligne Canyon Walk in the afternoon. Our guide Alicia told us it would be about a 3.5 km walk, although she referred to it as a 'hike' several times. Our group of about 10 people ranged in aged from 18 to mid 70's. The younger you were the easier it was but help was given to the less fit. We went from the top carpark down into the canyon, then backtracking out of the canyon to the lower carpark where the bus picked us up. The scenery is spectacular, especially if you are not a local to Canada. As an Australian it was not to be missed. Heading down into the canyon you see the iced falls from the various bridges. We were also,lucky enough to watch ice climbers in various places making their way down into the canyon. The walk out at the end is quite long and not lighted so it was quite dim and seemed to go on a long time."
"You can go for a short walk down a path with lots of railings and sights to see or go on long hikes. Winter you can go too, just need proper foot wear!! Need a care to go see"
Very nice in the summer and have been in the winter as well. Nice walk/hike to get out and about in Jasper
"There really isn't much option for things to do in Jasper in winter if you don't ski, so for us this was the only option. The drive to the canyon is pretty spectacular, although the bus was absolutely freezing. I understand that if the heating is turned on then the windows fog up, but frankly I'd choose warmth over scenery every time, especially as Canada was experiencing a polar blast and temperatures were dropping below -30 C (-22F). The walk into the canyon was spectacular although a little worrying because you have to climb back out again at some stage and it was so so cold. It was somewhat strange that they cut out a section of the safety fence to gain access to the bottom of the canyon, and the subsequent walk on the ice. I am not a terribly brave or adventurous person and I was really scared climbing through the fence and down the rocks and then walking on the ice, but others in the group had a ball. Our guides, Dave and Kayley were great. Dave has a wealth of knowledge about the area, but unfortunately, he started imparting the information before the entire group had caught up, so we often ended up getting bits of information. When it came time to return to the bus, we fortunately took a different route and it wasn't such steep or onerous going. I enjoyed the activity, and pleased I didn't chicken out!"
We purchased ice cleats for our boots (about 5-7 pair) and skipped the guided tour - ran into a couple of tours and am sure glad we were on our own
"Our guide Dieter made this trip. A very spritely & fit 72 year old, he was a humerous & very knowledgable guide. The canyon ice is amazing & a must do in Jasper. It was extremely cold (-23 degrees) & the canyon ice was in pristine condition the day we went. Rug up well if you go. Highly recommended."
"There are alot of tours to do this, but if you are going in the winter and everything is frozen. You can go a lot farther than the tours and actually take your time to walk the whole canyon and take pictures and admire the view from within the canyon."
We really enjoyed our night time tour with our guide Dave. This was my second trip through the canyon (third for my wife) and night-time adds a special dimension to the whole experience. The night time sky was full of stars and the whole trip had a hint of the surreal. Dave was knowledgeable and took great care to make the whole trip a safe one for all. Keep up the good work!
"This was my second visit to Maligne Canyon. The first visit was with my grandmother who wasn't able to do much hiking. This second visit I was able to do the entire day hike. It had rained recently, which made the hike a bit sketchy, so I recommend wearing good hiking shoes/boots. There are elevation changes and unpaved paths, so it isn't the easiest hike, but well worth it. The views are spectacular. These are sites that you will remember the rest of your life. Do not miss this while in the Jasper area. Get there early!"
Take the hike up to the tea house. Great way to spend a day. Bring extra layers the temperature changes quickly up there.
"We were staying in Jasper and the Canyon was a short drive. The car park was not full when we arrived but was on leaving. It was not too busy, we visited in September 2016.The paths were easy to navigate with the right footwear. The canyon is pretty spectacular I would recommend stopping and doing the hike."
"The nicest way to do this walk is to start at the lowest point (the second starting point coming from Jasper town) and walk up the hill. This way the views are nicer. The walk is 2,2km one way. After you have reached the second bridge (it says ""second bridge"" on the bridge), walk right from the bridge (unmarked path) untill you reach a spectacular waterfall in the canyon. After you have seen this waterfall it is best to turn back and walk the same path back to your car."
"My wife and I wasn't sure what we were getting into. David with Sun dog tours picked us up at the hotel. He was a wonderful guide. Very witty and also very patient. He definitely knew a lot about the area. He was truly an ambassador for the Jasper area. The walk along the canyon was beautiful. Every bridge we crossed was awesome. Looking down into the canyon was really magical. Then we went down on the ice and it was unbelievable. The cleats they give you made walking around very stable. There is no way we could have made it without them. The trip exceeded my expectations. I would recommend this trip to everyone and if you could get David as your guide, you will be very happy."
Brody is a great guide. Very helpful & knowledgable. The trip was challenging at times and I wouldn't recommend it for anyone who has difficulties with steps but the scenery was spectacular with many frozen waterfalls.
"We started this hike thinking we won't walk a lot, just cover a bit from the parking lot and return back.. but we were so stunned after the first bridge that we ended up going till the end covering all the bridges ! and walked back to the start... just LOVED the hike"
"Beautiful hike. A bit strenuous but not necessary to be superfit just willing to ascend, descend with a bit of muscle. Felt safe with guide. Enjoyed views from above, below and within the canyon. Highly recommend"
Have been to Jasper many times and had never been to the Maligne Canyon till Jan/2016. It's only about 20-25 minute drive from the town site of Jasper. We have been there now twice this year (Jan & Apr) and it's pretty amazing to see what the earth can create over many thousand centuries.
"Amazing hikes during the summer season, along the six bridges. My favorite time though, is the winter season. There are several companies that offer guided ""Ice Walks"" in the canyon. You get to walk on the floor of the canyon is several locations and see frozen waterfalls up close."
"We stopped here for a half day hike and lunch. It was beautiful! It was a fairly easy hike, well marked trails and railings for safety. Definitely worth a visit."
One of the favorite places we visited along our Canadian Rocky toure. The twists and turns of the natural water course is exiting and extremely photogenic. Do not miss this one.
"We were picked up by a fellow named Pete. We went with Sun Dog Tours. The 56 bucks per person was well worth it. Pete fitted us with ice shows that attached to our skidoo boots. We had a fun walk, Pete took us over the fence down to the frozen creek and we walked along the creek. Pete showed us lots of stuff and was very attentive to our safety. Next time it is the night walk through the ravine."
"Another amazing part of the Canadian Rockies, we were lucky enough to visit early morning after a storm when there was fresh snowfall.Walking through and being the first ones to leave footprints was absolutely magical! I had family visiting from Australia who had never seen snowfall like this and they adored it!!The Canyon itself is easily walkable with bridges overtop for easy viewing.I had previously visited in summer and it was just as beautiful then.I highly recommend a visit if you're in the area...or even if you're not."
Spent a couple of hours here walking the canyon. Very deep gorge with limited viewing platforms so not ideal for good photos. Pathway is quite steep in places and is ok going down the path but a lot harder to get back up !!!
Breath taking beauty and a pleasant hike. The scenery changes greatly from top to bottom. From the incredible roar and power at the top to the calm tranquility at the bottom.
"We snowshoed Moose Lake trail. Adequate snow, but we didn't see any wildlife or other people. No amenities open at this time of year."
Great walk from Bridge 5 to 1 and back. Awesome to see the formations of rock by water. Many water falls and a long canyon. Come prepared though for an outdoor adventure. Bring snacks and dress according to the weather. Saw people in loafers and running shoes in the snow.
Maligne Canyon is a beautiful area to visit. You can walk down into the canyon crossing over 6 bridges. It would be a hike to go back to the top or you can remain at the bottom and arrange to be picked up by someone in your group. The views are spectacular and make for great pictures. At the parking lot is a tea house/souvenir shop.
"Nature's Blessings. It's worth seeing & visiting place. I love it... People are so friendly, and helpful. Cheerful. Always greet you~~ Hi!!!!!!!!"
If we had better footwear we could have hiked farther. Enjoyed the scenery as we walked. The trail was well marked.
"There are six points to visit, we did 5 of them. We had a seven year old and a dog with us.I think the lack of washroom on the way made us turn back. We enjoyed the many different waterfalls, the canyon walls, the vegetation, the beautiful cliffs and rock formations.The colour of the river is turquoise, or blue, or green, it changes depending on the surroundings.A good exercise, but very comfy (possibly hiking) shoes recommended."
You must take the time to head to the Maligne Canyon and go for a hike. It's absolutely breathtaking.
We loved Maligne Canyon. We had a group of 8 who wanted a mild hike with nice viewpoints. We got just that! The walk along the canyon is family friendly with pathways and railings where necessary. There are signs at different points explaining the history which was interesting. We chose to climb up above the main path on the way back and saw an amazing view of the national park. This alternate return route was steeper and required hiking foot ware but very worth it.
Beautiful spot & a must visit when in Jasper you can do lots of hiking & multiple spots to start at so you can choose how long you want to walk for.
First visit was a shirt stop on another tour. So glad I returned on my own with my camera! Took the trail that bright me as far as fourth bridge and saw some breathtaking views. It was so nice to take my time and enjoy the scenery at my own pace. The hike is fairly easy but may be challenging to elderly or those with knee problems depending how far you go. The good thing is this place has trails for all levels. One of my favourite places in Jasper National Park!
This was one of my favourite sites while visiting the Jasper area. There are several waterfalls and clear walking trails. Took about 1 hr return trip.
We took a boat ride that was perfect and gave us a fantastic view of the lake. Fortunately the boat was heated because it was a cold rainy day.
"Maligne Canyon is a popular place to visit. Depending on what you want to do, you may choose to just do the 1st bridge viewpoint and take in the scenery or hike different trails on offer. One of the more popular ones is the 5th Bridge loop trail. It is an easy hike however there are numerous stairs and some steepness on some parts. The loop takes 2hrs to hike."
"I started out by visiting Lake Annette and stopping at Lake Edith to take some pictures of the elk. The trail around Lake Annette is peaceful, but if you're short on time, skip it.The Maligne Canyon hike would have been nice to do, but due to time constraints, I stopped at a view of the viewpoints but didn't walk around much until the final stop. You can walk around, see the falls, and the path comes out at the tea house.At Maligne Lake, I did part of the Mary Schaffer Loop, but after one of the viewpoints I felt that it kind of petered out and I headed up a hillside (which upon later Googling, I think I actually was on the trail still) instead of continuing along the lake and soon gave that up because I didn't want to be eaten by some wild animal I encountered while all alone at dusk, nor did I want to make the news for getting lost overnight."
"Walking shoes, can be slippery. Amazing gorged canyon with many types of terrain and natural growth."
"We started at Bridge 5 and walked up the canyon, past bridges 4,3,2,1 to the tea house (and bathroom facilities) and back via the higher Track 7 h. It was a great walk up along the narrow deep Canyon through which the water tumbles and swirls. We took several hours to hike about 5 km with numerous stops for photographs and to read the interesting interpretive sighs.Although an easy walk for those of even modest fitness, it does involves stairs so would not be suitable for strollers or those with limited agility. If wanting a shorter walk, it would still be well worth it to start from the tea house and just go to Bridge 1 or 2. There are several tables near Bridge 5, a lovely spot beside the river for a picnic.Hint: If visiting in September as we did, go early to beat the crowds, as this is a popular walk and rightly so."
Hike was quick and easy! Definitely busy foot traffic at this trail. There is actually another trail on the other side where you look down on the maligne canyon paved trail. One way to do is actually go north of where the entrance of the gazebo lookout and trail starts there and gives you a spectacular look of the canyon and view. The other way is to head down the path as usual where the small waterfall is and there is loose scree on the right of it where you can climb up on the way to the top. It's best to view from the other side than the regular tourist path !
"what can i say ,but its like nothing you have ever seen before .bring a packed lunch with you and plenty of water and you can walk as far as you want or as little as you want .Well woth a visit"
"Was beautiful, extremely busy and not as pretty as some of the other attractions in Jasper National Park. Very tourists and guided walk way impedes some
Visuals"
"First visit to Malign Canyon and only gave ourselves 1hour, which was not enough time to see all bridges and return to the parking lot. But there are options to make your hike shorter if needed. Beautiful waterfalls and scenery! Good signage to read along the way for a self interpreted trail."
Usually a canyon walk is not suitable for people with walking problems but my wife did this ( she has two artificial knees and has trouble negotiating stairs. The young girl Guide was excellent and made sure the slower members of the group were not left behind or made to feel they had to hurry up.the vistas in the canyon were excellent I do not think it is suitable for wheelchairs. the guide identified plants and animals ang gave information on the rocks formations etc.
"My wife and I visited here as part of a getaway away from the kids. Absolutely stunning sights. It's not necessarily an easy hike though so keep in mind if you have fitness limitations. The Teahouse was closed for the season, but it looked really nice from what we could see. Would like to come back in the summer."
"Quite easy walking trails with various viewpoints. Go left for the shorter 30 minute walk, go right for the longer hike."
"We got to the car park just to do a short stroll along the river, but decided to follow the route of 7H and do the whole route! Very uphill for a short period of time but definitely worth it for the view we got at the top! No complaints about this place!Must do: bring a camera!"
"My husband and I hiked for a few hours through the canyon, it was utterly amazing! It was light jacket weather in early October and the snow was just lightly falling. Didn't see any wildlife but it a good day!"
Great activity even on a cloudy/rainy day because you are looking down into the canyon. Very scenic. Loved the walk and crossing all the bridges
"Did the walk from the 5th bridge round trip. It is a steady incline to the tea house and the obviously downhill on the way back. It took about 2 hours round trip and was a moderate walk. The path is well travelled, even though we were in the off season. Lots of interpretative signs so there is a lot to learn. We drove to Medacine lake after to look at the source. The tea room was not open when we were there. Washrooms are available at both ends of the walk. We took 7f up and 7 back."
Just an easy short walk to see so much beauty. We saw some Moose just down the road. Sit and enjoy the beauty.
Beautiful area with lots of wildlife in addition to the great canyon. The canyon is deep and impressive and there are fossils and other attractions surrounding the area.
"Absolutley incredible and its ""FREE"", I've been there twice and wouldn't miss it when I go to Jasper again. Met lots of nice tourists there and the atmosphere in that canyon is magical, well worth the descent and climb back up, lots of rest benches , pack a sandwich and enjoy."
"A short drive from Jasper on the road to maligne lake. Great views around every corner, the best being at the bottom end of the valley looking up to the mountains , there is a pull out here."
My husband and I did the hike along the Canyon. It was beautiful! I took SO many pictures. There were quite a few people there for being late in the year. Definitely a must do when in Jasper.
"If you have fear of heights, think twice, but it is worth it. I have this fear and chose to just keep my self near the wall of the canyon while walking on the hanging walkway that runs along the side of the canyon -- thats how beautiful it was! Worth it. Much of the trail is on dirt, after the hanging catwalk-like walkways. The whole area is beautiful and it was not overcrowded when we were there. Plan a couple hours to enjoy the journey to the first falls and back."
"Easily accessed once you are at the site,the canyon drops away in places so far you can't see the water at the bottom.The water has worn away the rock in places and pushed itself into a thundering waterfall.Considering it wasn't known about for many years until the roof caved it it well worth a visit and a photo or two.Waterfalls, fossils, potholes, underground stream outlets, the nests of ravens and rare black swifts, unexpectedly lush plant life and the startling effects of frost action - these are just some of the wonders of Maligne Canyon. Swirling, churning water has worn the canyon, only two metres across at some points, to a depth of more than 50 metres.Maligne Canyon is carved into the Palliser Formation, a layer of limestone deposited in a shallow tropical sea by lime-secreting plankton about 365-million years ago. Some geologists speculate that parts of the canyon were originally deep caves that have since been uncovered by glacial scraping and water erosion.Parks Canada has developed a self-guided interpretative trail along the canyon with signs describing the geological history of the area. There are four bridges across the gorge, each with its own special view. A short hiking loop tours the upper reaches of the canyon, while a longer trail follows the gorge and exits at a fifth and sixth bridge lower down.Also see the shell fossils in the pathway."
"The Canyon Walk is well graded to guide tourists with different abilities for easy/short (o,2 km, 20-40 minutes); moderate/harder (0,5km, 30 minutes) and longer walks (2-3 hours). Nice trial with changing sceneries of the Canyon that leads all the way to the Maligne Lake. The Lake is very beautiful despite a recent massive wildfire started by lightening in July 2015. The Lake is also quite dry at the time we visit but still makes a dramatic sight."
We really enjoyed our time in Maligne Canyon. The sights are beautiful and the area is good for picnic and hikes.
"Interesting little canyon cut through the rocks. Lovely walk and great views, quite hilly but enjoyable."
"Maligne Canyon (pronounced Maleen) is located on Maligne Lake Road just a few minutes drive north of Jasper using Yellowhead Highway, AB-16. The hike can be started at several points along its length. We had lunch at the picnic tables at the 5th bridge and took advantage of the restrooms there. We then followed the Maligne River up to the 1st bridge staying on the part of the trail that hugs the river. Beware that the signage is very poor (terrible) and we met many confused hikers who had GPS and internet maps that did not help. We found one trail map sign at the 4th bridge that was clearly put in the wrong spot! Just hug the river! There are several opportunities for good photos of the bridges and river and gorge along the way. There are several moderate ascents from the 4th bridge to the 1st, total trail elevation gain is about 300 feet. Our 5.2 mile hike took 3 hours. Boots and hiking poles are recommended. For a just a peek at the canyon near the 1st bridge, drive further up Maligne Lake Road and park at the teahouse and gift shop and walk downhill to the 1st bridge. Did this review earn a “helpful vote”?"
Incredible experience. We took a ton of photos. Everyone in our group of 5 really enjoyed the experience.
"You could choose a short or longer walk, could go all the way to the 7th bridge and back, or could turn back at any point.We should had packed our lunches and spent a day here. The rocks formation is so varied and interesting, the air was crisp and refreshing, and the water giggling with the birds' chirping... You're rewarded with beautiful and changing scenery the whole time if you choose the path along the river.I found it difficult to translate the map provided at the trail head onto the actual landscape. We meant to take the path along the river but ventured onto a foresty trail by mistake. Luckily we found out early enough to take a quick detour. Use the sound of the water as your guide, I guess.The trail surface consists mostly of lime-like stone which could be slippery when wet.The views should be quite unusual in the winter if you're in the adventurous mood."
"A great way to spend a day just outside Jasper. The canyon consist of six bridges that you can walk to. The paths are well maintained but i would put the hike at the above moderate level. You can limit your walk to just to the second bridge, which is pretty incredible. Plenty of parking. Definitely recommended from a dude that normally just walks on the beach."
"This was certainly one of the highlights of our trip. It is unreal what beauty nature can create. There was a bit of a crowd, but everyone had a good chance to see everything, and take pictures. Please take your time to really enjoy this spectacular setting."
"I didn't do all of Maligne Canyon because the trails were icy and I had many things I wanted to accomplish that day, but the parking lot overlook has excellent views of the valley and mountains and you can get good views of the falls without walking too far on the trail. Seemed like you could spend a whole day doing the trails there in the summer and enjoy the wildlife.The gift shop nearby was truly excellent. It had beautiful items by local Aboriginal artists available in a range of materials for all types of budgets. They also carried hand-crafted cold-weather leather boots and shoes. I saw nothing like it in any other gift shop I visited in the park."
Easy and enjoyable hike. Spend an hour or so to get to the 4th Bridge; pack water and lunch to go the distance to 6th Bridge
"This natural canyon is very unique - it is so narrow & deep that it is difficult to see the water rushing through the canyon, but you can hear it!! Also, a rare bird specie nests in the walls."
The canyon and a number of bridges which cross it are signposted from the road to Maligne Lake with the main centre more clearly marked. There's a good trail to allow vists to the first four bridges though there's quite a few steps - the views down into the canyon make it a worthwhile stop
"The view, looking down at the canyon, is simply beautiful.
The attraction is definitely worth the visit."
This was such a surprise. We were amazed at the canyon and the work that the water had done. We spent a long time walking around the area. The wildlife was also good.
"This is a very nice place to spend a couple of hours. You drive directly to the top area and walk a short loop down or park further away and walk upwards, and return in a loop. We chose the latter way and were glad of it. Peaceful and beautiful."
Just outside of Jasper off Highway 16. Definitely worth a visit and the walk along the canyon is as long as you want it to be. The sculpturing done by the water is very picturesque. Better to visit in the shoulder seasons to avoid the tourist crush.
A must do in the Jasper area. Beautiful walk and the views and picture opportunities were amazing. This is truly a beautiful part of the country
This is a very beautiful hike through the canyon with stunning views no matter what the weather might be I would recommend this hike to anyone who is visiting the area it will not disappoint.
Stunning scenery and a variety of hikes make this an absolute must when visiting the area. The cafe is also a nice place to grab a bite. A very surprising and amazing collection of Norval Morriseau paintings as well. (Morrisseau spent some time in the area years ago and the owner of the cafe/gallery was a friend.) Definitely worth a stop.
"I had no idea the Maligne Canyon was even a thing. On our way back from Maligne Lake, we stopped to see what it was all about, and I am glad we did! What an incredible environmental feature! We spent a few hours walking the trails and spending time on the bridges. We didn't take a guided tour, but I am sure one would be quite informative."
Very well layed out hike/walk. Just loved the awesome river as it thundered its way in and out of the bank.
"Beautiful view of the canyon. We reached the third bridge. Hike was okay. It was not as hard as some descriptions say. However, there were some stairs which were a bit tiring. But it was still ver nice and we had so much fun. We went in September, and the weather was just right. It was cold, but not freezing cold."
The entire area is absolutely astounding. No pictures can convey the beautiful sights or surroundings.
"We enjoyed this hike and were thrilled with the views. However, don't expect to have a quiet, peaceful wilderness experience. There were lots of people and the path was fairly crowded."
In the Maligne Canyon you can make amazing walks while you get stuning views of the river that carves the canyon. A real must see and do in this area.
This was our first activity in Jasper and it didn't disappoint. Just make sure you leave enough daylight so you can appreciate just how deep this thing is. It was getting late in the day but we just about saw it.
The walk downhill to get to the first bridge is pretty strenuous because you have to go back up. Didn't go further. There are other view point along the road where you can see the canyon without the hike.
"A really beautiful place just outside Jasper town, with some fantastic hikes all around it for all fitness leve"
"We visited on a dramatic rainy day. It is fascinating in this day and age to be able to witness nature going about its business unhindered and the majesty of it takes your breath away (although it is a gorge really, not a canyon, apparently. Or so says the information prior to entry to the trail!)"
This was one of the highlights of our trip. It was beautiful and the trails are very well maintained. The nice part is that you can experience Maligne Canyon no matter your physical level. You can walk a little or hike the whole thing. We took our 2 year old and made it 4km.
"Only a few minute drive from the town of Jasper, Maligne Canyon offers incredible views of one of the narrowest and deepest cuts through the rocky landscape that you'll find anywhere. There are several hiking trails available, but even the easiest one requires some degree of good balance and an ability to transverse a somewhat uneven terrain. Plan on spending anywhere from a minimum of thirty minutes to upwards to two hours depending on your ability and willingness to hike the trails. A great stop on your way to Maligne Lake (about 45 kilometers away). The gorge gets very little sun, so plan on bringing at least a sweater on all but the warmest days of summer, and hiking boots or a good pair of sneakers are a must."
"A short trip from downtown Jasper, the Maligne Canyon is an absolutely stunning view. It shows how time has carved a tremendous canyon in the rocks. Some of the views from the bridges are actually a little scary. There is a hike of approximately 5 kilometers from the upper bridge to the lower canyon, where an acquaintance could pick you up again. The scenery is spectacular and makes a person feel very tiny and insignificant."
You can hike a great distance but the trail that goes over the first two bridges is short and easy. The path is paved and the bridges have numbers to help orient where you are. The tea house near bridge 1 has toilets and a restaurant. There are pretty views of the canyon and the waterfalls on the short loop.
"still a sight to see with a light snow in the trees
the snow simply added to the season change that one would expect this time of year"
The water has cutted through the rocks. Nice walk with different spots to rest and enjoy the view and listen to the thundering water. Nice stop after the visit to lake Maligne.
"Very impressive and not so overrun with tourists. We stuck to the short walk near the parking area, but longer hikes in the area abound.
We found some of the directional/orientation signs to be confusing until we studied them carefully."
"Park at the 1st bridge, where there is a large parking lot. The building offers a nice gift shop, restrooms, and a cafe; this is the Teahouse that is mentioned, although there is no signage indicating the name. The gift shop is like a museum with fine artwork and sculpture in the hallways. We had sandwiches made to order here; not very quick and very basic sandwiches. However, it was nice to take our picnic lunch to the 1st waterfall, sit on a bench, and be outside taking in the view. It doesn't take very long and it's an easy walk to Waterfalls 1, 2, and 3. The first three waterfalls and the canyon are all impressive; each is a bit different. Our favorite was waterfall 1. 4 is a bit further out, and we didn't have time to continue. Later in the day, we drove to waterfalls 5 & 6; they only offer river views as they are not in the canyon. 5 & 6 are skippable if you are short on time."
"We visited this incredible canyon during a coach tour from Jasper. It is crossed by a number of bridges as the river descends. Our limited timescale only enabled us to make a comparatively short circular walk from the parking area over two/three of the brifges. However, even this visit showed how deep the river had carved the narrow channel, and at some points the water was almost out of view under rocks. The paths and steps, as usual at Canadian attractions are well constructed and in good condition, although care is still needed. Clean washrooms are also available. This is an excellent area to visit approximately 40 miles from Jasper"
Several options in terms of length of walk you do. The walk we did took just couple hrs.... some sections were slippery as you have shale and at angle.
Really enjoyed the canyon has it was an easy hike with so many amazing views from all angles of the water gushing below.
"On our way to maligne Lake we stopped at the canyon which is traversed by a series of bridges, allowing you to plan a walk of whatever length suits you. You can hear the water before seeing it and when is becomes visible it is impossible not to be in awe of the water power which has carved so deep a chasm in the rock."
We started at 2. Very easy walk from the parking lot. Amazing views. It was later in the day and we only had time for a short walk. You can visit for a short time or walk the entire length. It was rainy but the trees provided good coverage. Don't miss this.
This was a great walk with excellent views and info from our guide along the way. On the drive there we saw elk and deer. This would also be amazing in winter when the waterfalls are frozen.
"Easily accessible from the parking lot. If you have the time, stamina and interest the entire trail must be breathtaking. I just went from bridge two to the next crossing point and I was blown away in that short distance"
"We walked to the 5th bridge, great views of the canyon. We walked the main route down to the 5th bridge and walked the high route back to the car park. Make sure you go to the Lake, especially in the morning there is a good opportunity of seeing Moose, near the boat shed. We did the Mary Schaffer walk, which went passed the view point of the Lake to the mountains, just beautiful, the loop then continues away from the Lake through forest back to the car park. And yes I got some great photos of Moose's along the way"
This was a fantastic & informative tour along with a boat ride up Maligne Lake with astounding scenery
The walk to the first 2 bridges is easy and the little shop there has some very nice items. We did not do the hike to all 6 bridges but you can drive to them along the road.
"Over the last few years, we have started our hike at the six bridge and hiked up to the main canyon. Today we took the 7H route back which is a quicker return however the views of the mountains are beautiful! Far fewer people on this trail but it is no where near the water until you rejoin the main trail almost at the six bridge. It gives a different prospective but if you love the water, take the same trail back...the scenery is different when approaching from the opposite direction. We wouldn't miss this hike! It's always beautiful. Take a picnic or eat up at the tea house....great food there and very reasonable."
beautiful...lake with wonderful walking paths...we looked for bears but did not see any thing except a deer
We went on a tour with Jasper Tour Co. which took us to Maligne Valley Canyon. I think having a guide to tell us the stories and history of the area made the trip much more interesting. But nevertheless it is beautiful and worth the trip from Jasper.
"We are a group of 9 seniors from the US who travel to national parks each year. We chose this hike as one of our major events in Jasper NP, since we were only here for one full day. Maligne Canyon did not disappoint! We set up shuttle cars, so we were able to hike down the canyon one way from the trailhead to the 5th bridge. Path was easy to negotiate, with several outstanding viewpoints and interpretive signs along the way."
"By no means is this an easy hike, if a boardwalk is considered an easy hike. There are many stairs and a pretty decent incline; parts of the trail are on large (mostly flat) rocks. If you have any concerns, I’d recommend starting at the 1st bridge so you can easily return to the car park if you believe you are over-taxed by the trail.We parked at the 6th bridge; it’s a small lot, so not sure what happens with the overflow. Perhaps people drive on to the 5th bridge. Between the 6th and 5th bridges is the longest part of the trail along the river. There is a larger lot at the 1st bridge. As we walked the first part of the trail, we marveled at the water appearing like magic from the rock face to mingle with the water from the river further upstream. This part is nice and cool through the forest. The advantage to starting at the 6th bridge is that it is uphill on the way to the 1st bridge. We took trail 7h up – it’s posted coming from the 6th bridge, but if you start at the 1st and don’t go on to the 6th, you might miss the sign – so look for the fork in the road that leads uphill. It’s pretty steep going up, about 5 minutes of climbing stairs, so unless you’re wearing sturdy shoes, it’s much easier going up than coming down. It flattens out after that and is pleasant walking through the forest. (If you want less of an ascent, hook up with it near the 2nd bridge going toward the 6th, but again, beware of the steep downhill.)We re-entered trail 7 at the 2nd bridge and walked up to the parking lot to start the adventure ! The geological formation is so fantastic – steep drops down to the water, swirling pools, water appearing from the wall. From the parking lot, it is mostly downhill with a lot of stairs and there are some sections walking on uneven rocks and dirt.Seeing the rushing water in various states – waterfall, flowing river, water coming from nowhere – made for an interesting hike ! And, being near the water and in the forest helped keep the temperature down. In August, we didn’t feel too much mosquito activity here."
Beautiful Canyon scenery. Start at the top and walk down to bridge 5. You can return back via the higher path which gives some mountain views.Most of the tour bus groups only make it to bridge 2 so you got the rest of the area pretty much to yourself.
The way the falls have been created is a must see sight. The trails around the falls are very easy walking. Stare down and see the sights.
"We did the walk from the trailhead and Cafe to 6th Bridge. The further you walk the better it gets and the fewer people you meet. Downhill most of the way out, we then get the 7H route return. 7h is steeply uphill from 5th bridge, but worth it for the views and to walk the quieter trail. Excellent Canyon trail."
"I had a heck of a time trying to figure out the hiking trails in this canyon. I couldn’t find any hiking trail maps or descriptions. Here’s the scoop: If you want to hike UP the canyon, park at the 6th bridge lot or the 5th bridge lot (maybe ½ mile apart). If you want to hike DOWN the canyon, drive to the Maligne Canyon Restaurant and park there. The first bridge and path start at the restaurant end of the parking lot; a second trail head with story boards is at the other end of the lot and actually starts at the second bridge. Reviewers who said the trail is well paved only walked the first part. Starting at the second bridge, going down, there are a lot of stairs and steep paths. I say this only for the benefit of someone who may have knee or walking issues. If you are in good shape, it is easy enough. From the 2nd through 4th bridge, the trail is steeper; from the 4th bridge to the 6th bridge the grade is much more gradual. We hiked down from the restaurant to the 5th bridge and then back up, which in reality wasn’t as hard as I thought it would be. It took us about 35-40 minutes each way with stops and we are 62 and 63 years old. You are pretty much out of the narrow slot canyon at the 4th bridge, but the remainder of the trail to the 5th bridge goes along the river and is very pretty. There are a number of waterfalls to see. Most of the trail is shaded until you get closer to the 5th bridge. We went around 9:30 a.m. and the sun was not over the canyon walls. I think it may be prettier between 11 and 1 p.m. when the sun is more directly overhead. But still, this is a great hike and a beautiful natural feature to see."
We have visited Maligne Canyon and lake every time we have been to Jasper four times now. The safety features are great and the views outstanding. Every level is different and access easy with a path running the whole length of the canyon. Take lots of water as you will need it.
"IF your up for a long hike with lots of elevation both up and down this attraction is NOT TO BE MISSED!!! These gorges are an amazing sight of what nature created! We followed the path down the stairs for the first 5 bridges, then followed the hiking path back up to the parking area which is on the other side of the gorge. When I got back to the car I felt that this was a good way to do it as even though it was a good uphill hike I felt it was easier than climbing ALL those stairs. It also gave some great views, just be carful as there are no fences on this side and it's a LONG FALL to the bottom! Both bridges 5 & 6 can be accessed by car, I'm glad I got to see them but if you don't the amazing views are all at the first 5 bridges area."
We walked the Canyon from first bridge down to fifth bridge and found it overwhelming and worth every step.Highly recommended to explore it.
"Lots of trails surround this interesting canyon, worth a visit. Easy to park and navigate, walk a little further and you can escape the crowds that do not venture much beyond the carpark."
"The thing I liked about this canyon was you could do as much or as little as you wanted. My husband has arthritis in his spine and so is limited on walking but be still made it from Bridge 1 to bridge 4 and back, just under an hour. Go as far as you can, it's a spectacular walk."
"We were unable to do the entire hike, but we loved the time spent there. It is a beautiful canyon. Go, if even for a short visit!"
"Be prepared to walk a lot to get to cover the whole canyon. Elevation was a factor and the walk was tiring, but was beautiful."
"Amazing place! Awesome pathway along a steep and deep slot canyon, featuring several bridges that allow stunning views into the deep gorge. Not very suitable for strollers or people that have difficulty walking as the path is quite steep and uneven in places. During our recent visit, the fall colors were amazing as well, adding to the sheer beauty of this place. As a bonus, we found a picnic table near the parking lot and enjoyed lunch. Perfect companion to Maligne Lake which is located along the same road outside of Jasper."
The views throughout this canyon are amazing but do require a certain degree of stamina. We made it to bridge 4 - an easy downhill walk BUT what goes down must come back up!
"We were on the way to recommended Maligne Lake and came upon a sign for this attraction. So we went. There are various trails to take there , and we were surprised at the presence of this deep, narrow, canyon we didn't know about. There is water flowing in it, and a waterfall area that is part of the canyon trail system. All in all, this place was a surprise and we enjoyed walking on the trails. We ended up somewhat away from where we had parked, but were easily able to find our car."
"Thought we would take a five min photo stop here, but it took us two hours!!
Amazing place, very interesting and great place for nature lovers or photographers.
Steep climb in places but well worth it ??"
"This activity can be either done by driving or hiking depending on your interests.
We opted to drive, park and visited the various bridges. Nice views and you can plan a picnic or have lunch as there are numerous park benches."
This was a welcome afternoon stop to stretch our legs and we appreciated the lovely walk to the falls.
"This attraction/walk can be done easily in a couple of hours, we walked the longest option and finished in 2 hours with stopping to take photos.there are shorter options if you don't fancy the whole thing.Beautiful Canyon that is busy at the start but thins out as the walk goes on."
"Bring a camera and your hiking boots in the summer and ice cleats in the winter. Hike the whole thing, and depending what time of year you go changes the scenes in the canyon."
"What breathtaking views. The walk/hike to the different bridges was nice, hearing and seeing the waterfalls and canyons was absolutely worth the short drive from our hotel and a for sure to see area."
The Canadian Rockies are a very nice place to visit and Jasper National Park is a very good reason to be there. The Maligne Canyon is quite scenic and worth your time.
"It was nice to see the Maligne Canyon. We walked until the fourth brige. The route until the second bridge is busy/touristic, but when we walked to the third and fourth bridge there were less people and between these bridges is a beautiful view besides the river."
All over the Rockies you have stunning views and this is another! Walk along the side of Canyon and just enjoy. Worth visiting.
"Beautiful locale. Takes close to an hour to get to from Jasper Townsite. Scenic drive.
There are several great hiking areas that are mapped out well.
I didn't do any paddling however I think this would be great in the future."
"Stunning and beautiful hiking area divided up in 5 bridges. I started at 1st Bridge and made it to a bit further than 4th Bridge, then my time was running out as we had booked a tour at Maligne Lake same afternoon. The scenery was just stunning around each corner I went. You have to be fit getting around, it can be a long hike if you make it to all 5 bridges.Absolutely worth a visit, we went there in September."
Get there in the morning and avoid some crowds so you can get good video and pics of the canyon. Very impressive and quite a nice walk. Bit of an uphill slope on the way back but just leave yourself some time to take a rest and look around. Worth adding to your bucket list for sure.
"You decide how far you would like to walk here - the shorter one which is relatively easy (which we did) or the longer one. Paths are generally well maintained, although some are a little rougher, but by no means unmanageable.The canyon itself, is well worth the visit. It is located in a natural forest and has been carved through the rock and results in a number of smaller, yes, but nonetheless interesting, waterfalls. Also good for photo opportunities, although some scenes are a little difficult to line up.Well worth a visit."
"We parked at the top and walked to the first bridge. Our main question was ""Where is the water?"" The answer is at the bottom of an extremely deep chasm. You can hear it, but only see it at various points. We thought about walking to the second bridge but people returning told us that it was some distance, and that the path was very steep so we abandoned that thought. We did drive to bridges five (a small suspension bridge) and six ( a bailey bridge) but neither are very spectacular. However, the surrounding scenery is peaceful and attractive."
"The Maligne canyon hike is so relaxing, refreshing and breathtaking. I would say it's easy hike, about 3 hours from sixth bridge to first and back. Bring a camera, the views are breath taking and the fresh air, water sounds are such an amazing break from the city life. Staring at bridge 6 and waking to 1 is easier vs starting at 1 and walking to 6."
"Amazing experience thanks to our crew Beth and Moe. Beth did a fantastic job telling us about history and names and stories of the mountains and glaziers. Moe did a great job driving the boat.
Very enjoyable. ????"
"Had a great walk from 6th bridge to the 1st bridge not too strenuous as first thought! Having read reviews on trip advisor thought it was going to be a lot more difficult and confusing! But you can start at either end and it's well mapped out for you to follow, the waterfalls are beautiful, the canyon itself is awesome well worth it."
"We got some tips to do the first 2-3 bridges as they were the most impressive so we stuck to the tip. Overall, it's nice but wasn't blown away by the falls. Do the 3rd bridge and you can do the climb back up the hill as opposed to doing the stairs again. It's nice for a good pit stop on the way to Maligne Lake."
"Not all that easy to get to but well worthy the effort. Very difficult to capture photographically but again, worth the effort. Our whole tour bus gave this one five stars out of five."
A moderate hike with lovely views of the river running through the canyon. The hike takes about an hour and then there is a shorter route back. We totally enjoyed our visit.
Nice short stroll to see the canyon and take some photos. Peak times this place is always crowded with busses and motorhomes.
"The canyon is like nothing else we saw in the rockies. It is a marvel of nature and it's huge. The paths and bridges are well made and maintained. Bridges 1 to 4 are the most impressive. Bridge 5 offers some different scenery of the river. Bridge 6 is 1.9km further downstream and it's similar to 5. If you enjoy walking or exercise, it's a nice walk. We returned to the main car park via the the track away from the canyon (7h I think). It is very steep for about 500m but flattened out and went past a couple of very nice lookouts of the valley."
I don't know what people are talking about when they say there is nothing to see between Bridges 4 and 6. It was a beautiful stroll through the woods and stayed near the river most of the time. There are some absolutely beautiful views from along this trail and no people! The river is much wider at bridge 6 than at the actual canyon where it is very narrow. There were a ton of people between Bridges 1 and 2 (as would be expected). If you have time...park out and enjoy the walk in with some beautiful river and mountain scenery (especially early in the morning!)
"The Canyon on the Athabasca River is located en-route to Lake Maligne. Do stop and trek it. There are several trek options so choose the one that suits you best. The views of the canyon are amazing. There is food, souvenirs and restrooms at the parking lot."
Great hike and beautiful views! We added some mileage to our hike by going around Edith Lake. A lot less people around bridge 5 and 6.
"We visited Maligne Canyon today. It is very nice, very interesting and quite surprising. My wife has a knee problem and as issues walking on uneven ground. The paths are well paved and generally flat and even. There are only a couple of uneven areas. The canyon is carved out of he ground. This is a very nice stop."
"Lovely walk down the canyon with some nice waterfalls. Very scenic. Reasonably easy walk for all ages, a few steps here and there. Nice restaurant and gift shop in the car park."
"Maligne canyon is a good spot to stop along the way to maligne lake. Walking around, admiring the view and such. It's all pretty fun!"
Really enjoyed this. It is an easy drive from jasper. Good practice run driving on the wrong side of the road! Pay attention at the beginning you can do a short loop or a long one. Signs are not great once on the track and lots of us confused as to how far to go and when to turn back. But if you have the time you must have a look. Very powerful and pretty.
A lovely walk that can apparently be done in 3 hours. It took us a while longer as I am out of shape but was ok. I wouldn't recommend it to anyone with little ones doing the full walk but the first part of the trail would be fine as it is only about 20 minutes. The views are stunning and there are plenty of information boards around the walk telling you about the formations and fauna. We used it as our last day in the Rockies before our Park ticket expired. Highly recommended.
On your way to the stunning Maligne lake you might as well of a the Maligne Canyon. Cut incredibly deeply through the solid rock the water tumbles through a series of falls and drops. This steep route o really numerous steps and bridges won't suit all and remember the climb back up is harder!
The falls that are on all the postcards are a little hard to find..they better signage..we did the short walk..a small loop around the first and second bridge..raw natural beauty of this place is breathtaking.. definitely a must when in the Jasper area..
The color of the water and the depths of the canyon was breathtaking. There's lots of beautiful foliage and waterfalls.
"Find a good spot and get out of the car. Enjoy the sound of rushing water and the smell of the evergreens. The further away from the road you get, the more enjoyable it is. A great hiking spot."
"Great walk with or without a guide, very beautiful lots of photo opportunities of canyon and small wildlife."
We opted for a tour of the Maligne Valley and Canyon which provided good information since this was our first visit.
"This is a pretty easy walk, you can go as far as you like if you have time and energy. The views are spectacular and kept us going - we ended up spending about 2 hours here, hiking out one way along the canyon and then taking another route up a mountainside to get back to our starting point.There's really no way to put it more succinctly than saying this is a great gem of a hike. Take it if you can."
"One of Jaspers deepest canyons i recall reading with beautiful scenery. Also a decent cafe at the start/end after a short or long hike.You have a few options here and a number of bridges to see. If fit and able there is a ~4-5km round hike to take in bridges 1 to 5. Or a much shorter one to bridge 1, or medium one for bridges 1 - 4. Stairs and uneven ground (we took a light stroller as our 2 yr old offen refuses to walk) and have of it we needed to carry it. Bridges 5 and 6 can be driven too if you choose the shorter route."
A great walk to experience the sights and sounds the canyon. Well worth the side trip. A variety of walks for those wanting a quick look or a more in depth exploration.
We have seen so many waterfalls on this trip. This is by far our favorite. No wonder it was so highly recommended. Must see bridge 1 to 3. We also found an unofficial path and was able to get right next to the water. We completed the entire loop. Have great fun.
"Great walks on good paths to see the falls. All well fenced and sign posted
Gorgeous waterfalls, especially after a bit of rain the day before.
Keep an eye out for wildlife, lots of squirrels running around too."
"This is a very popular spot on the way to Maligne Lake. There are a variety of options. The short trail is a brief 15-20 minute round trip, covering the first two bridges. We opted for the middle option covering four bridges, which took about 45 minutes round trip. We saw the best of the canyon and it was a fairly easy hike. The long version covering all six bridges appeared to be quite a bit longer, but if you've got the time it's probably worth the extra trek."
"We had no idea how amazing Maligne Canyon is. The canyon hike is amazing. The hike goes for miles but can choose how much you want to complete.
This would great for families with Kids as well as couples."
"We saw bear, elk and deer along the roads in the canyon. Lovely place. Save time for a canoe paddle. It looked like fun. But if you're pressed for time, this may not be your best choice."
"Follow the paved path for the best views, lower down the dirt path on the right side (as you face downstream) is too far from the river to be worth doing. Go early or late to avoid the crowds as this is a popular place"
Only did the short walk over the two bridges. But it affords some views of the waterfall and canyon showing dramatic erosion by the water pouring down the mountain. Not the most spectacular I have seen since being in the Rockies but the longer walks down the canyon may offer a lot more. Paths for the most part seem properly man made so good intro for the causal walker. Plus views of some wild life if you are lucky; I only saw a few Squirrels. Nice main building with cafe and shop. Disappointing to see some rubbish over some of the fenced areas that some irresponsible visitors have dumped.
"Maligne Canyon can be found on the route to Medicine Lake, and Lake Maligne (cruise).. There are six bridges that cross the canyon at different parts, however whereas First and Second Bridge are on a level at the top of the canyon, you start to work your way steeply down through bridges three and four. I only went down as far as Fourth Bridge, as I knew the hike back up to the car park would be a taxing one, which it was! Not for the unfit I can assure you!!Having visited Johnston Canyon, outside Banff, I found Maligne Canyon had some nice parts but wasn't nearly as nice. Definitely worth a visit though, even if you don't do all the bridges."
"The canyon and gorge are impressive, but the South end of Maligne Lake is a must see destination. It is encircled by tall mountains capped with glaciers."
Loved Maligne Lake. It is a must see when in Jasper. We took the boat cruise to Spirit Island and loved it. Spectacular scenery and great photo opportunities.
Beautiful views of the falls and canyon. Quite a lot of steps to climb and descend so maybe not for people with mobility problems.
"The view of the canyon is amazing. We took the long hike to 5th bridge, it took us about 2 hours and a half for both ways. Difficulty is a bit above intermediate. Recommended!"
"Our group paid for this trip which is why we had a guide. The walk down the canyon from the top to bridge 5 takes about 2hrs with various stops and is very easy, the guide we had was very informative and passionate about his job which made it interesting. The views were spectacular and photo's do not always do it justice."
Hiked the very short walk from the parking lot and the canyon was very cool. Very quick and aggressive waters that have created intense erosion over the years. Worth the trip.
I never knew this existed. This has to be 150-200 feet deep cut into the stone by thousands of years if erosion. Quite stunning. My pictures can not reflect how stunning this place is.
"This Canyon had well mapped out hiking routes of different levels and times, which included 6 bridges. Due to time constraints, we were only going to do 2 bridges, but after seeing the views from our 1st bridge (which was actually bridge 2 on the route), we elected to move on to bridge 3. I believe we spent less than an hour at the Canyon, but wish it could have been longer - the views were spectacular and the hike was pretty easy."
A stunning spot with the usual cafe/shop but built in keeping (didn't visit). Maligne Canyon is a must with the small ferry to take you over to Spirit Island. Commentary was excellent.
"We didn't walk the whole length of the canyon (it's quite long!), just a short section. It is a specacular sight, and extremely deep. The trail down along the canyon was quite uneven in areas, and downhill, so it was great fun coming back up! It might not be suitable for someone unsteady on their feet."
"Hiked the easy walk down from the parking lot at Bridge #1along the beautiful canyon.....returned via the higher trail.
The boat cruise on on Maligne Lake is also not to be missed."
"This is definitely worth your time and energy. We started at ""Bridge #1"" and walked the trail down river to ""Bridge #4"" and back to the beginning. The canyon has impressive deep walls and many water falls. The trail is some what steep in places but very manageable but we would suggest good hiking boots."
"You can do as much as you want of this little walk as you want. It's paved at the top, turning to track further down making it accessible for all. Just remember that you walk down hill from the car park and so you have to walk back up again. Serious hikers will hardly break sweat, whilst less able walkers may struggle if you go too far. The views are very nice though. There are toilets, a restaurant and a gift shop at the car park."
"This is a very interesting place to walk. We only walked at short trail due to time constraints of another tour. Be prepared to walk up and down some steep grades. Is you take your time, this is doable. There are several bridges to cross with wonderful views of the river below."
Fantastic canyon and easily walked trails. Well worth the visit. We did it on the way to Maligne Lake.
"A short hike, just about 45 mins to the third bridge. Up to 3 hours to the 6th bridge return. It was a very beautiful hike. The cliffs, waterfalls, bridges. A must to visit when you visit Jasper."
Great views of the canyon and gorge on the way down; wonderful views from the top if you hike the loop. Signage is about as confusing and useless as it gets. Take 7h from Bridge 5 to get the scenic return trip rather than doubling back.
This is an amazing hike! There are plenty of stops along the way for pictures and you can choose the distance you want to walk. Just a warning the hike back up is a bit grueling so give yourself plenty of time. We spent about 3 hours on the walk and finished it off with tea in the resteraunts.
"Maligne Canyon has 6 bridges and the first 2 ones are easy walk and it's beautiful. It's very less crowded. For those who do not want to hike down or the ones with little kids, you can do the 1st two from the starting point and drive to the 3rd bridge point and 5/6 bridge point and cover all the 6 with very little walking. I felt driving to different bridge point was very convenient especially with a 5yr old. It is definitely a must do."
There's a lot of different stops and trails to choose from. There's not much I can add to what's been written already. We kind of enjoyed the 6th Bridge area the most - walking out to the confluence of rivers and watching the grizzly bear size ravens cavorting about.
"A good walk down into the canyon, we went only to the second bridge as we knew we had to walk back up, a great way to spend some time"
"This is a lovely walk along a staggeringly deep canyon that allows you to see the impact of erosion very clearly. From the parking lot we walked past the tea house and along the route from bridges 1 to 5 - took us around 75 mins or so but well worth it. If you have limited time bridges 1 to 3 are the most dramatic and quickest to get to and bridge 4, in my opinion, is a bit of a let down. In truth we only walked to bridge 5 as we didn't realise that it was bridge 4! Nevertheless the walk higher up the canyon between bridges 4 and 5 was excellent with many viewing points. We are not in the first throes of youth but managed it in trainers although you do see many serious walkers on the same path. Cheat Alert - you can drive very easily to bridges 5 and 6 with small parking lots to the right hand side on the way back down to Jasper. Bridge 6 is a particularly quiet and lovely spot to linger"
Pretty place and a short trail around the side of the parking lot can be completed in about 20 mins. Trail ends at a gift shop and food stop.
"I think this is a must see. I saw pictures before I went and they don't do it justice. Beautiful, clear blue water!"
"I loved everything about this experience, photos don't do it justice. Stunning views and photo opportunities and great accommodations for varying fitness levels. I also found this attraction less crowded than some other attractions in Jasper and Banff. Highly recommend!"
"Fantastic trip, wonderful scenery, the two girls ( pilot and guide) were very helpful and knowledgeable about the surround area and it's history."
Beautiful hike. All stairs or well laid out trail along side of roaring river. Lots of waterfalls. We hiked to the fourth bridge and then drove car to the fifth bridge. You will love this hike if you also like climbing stairs.
I have seen so many places on this trip that one beautiful place after another ... I hope you get the chance to experience this beautiful place like I did :)
This is a lovely canyon to explore. We went having visited the lake. We began at the top and headed down the very steep path. Bridges 1-4 are fairly close together so can be seen fairly easily. You need to be further down to see the river itself as the water cuts very deep gouges at the top. I decided to head further down towards bridge 6 where the river widens out. Well worth the extra effort. I came back through the woods on route 7h. Steep climb to start but quicker to return to the car park than going back via the Canyon. It is steep in places. Lovely restaurant at the car park by Bridge 1 for coffee and cake.
We stopped off here on a road trip . They have various hikes ranging from 15 minutes to 3 hours . The scenery was lovely and well worth a visit
"Maligne Canyon is an extremely deep gorge created by centuries of water running through the rocks! It is a bit of a hike, there are six bridges that span the canyon at various intervals. We were able to walk across 4. Coming back is a steep climb. So, make sure you have good shoes to walk this!"
Enjoy the walk! This is an excellent break from the ride. You can enjoy this canyon in an hour and take some great photos. Imagine the volume of silt laden water required to rip this water course through solid rock.
Worth a stop for sure. Hard to convey how beautiful this area is and how much force of nature you will witness.
"A spectacular canyon with great walkways and bridges over a really deep canyon. Free parking and good facilities with a cafe, gift shop, toilets."
"The trail is not overly strenuous, we walked the full length. The canyon and various falls were stunning. Recommend 100%."
"If we had seen Maligne Canyon earlier in our trip, maybe it would have had more of a ""wow"" impact, but after all of the beautiful lakes, rives, hikes, glaciers, and falls in the area, Maligne Canyon was just ""ok."" We arrived later in the afternoon (around 4pm) and were able to get a parking spot right up front - only light crowds. We walked to the 1st and 2nd bridge and decided that was enough. The canyon was awesomely deep, which was neat to see, but it also made it difficult to see the water. In all fairness, we also wanted to hike to see the Angel Glacier at Edith Cavill that same day, so we decided that would be a better fit of our time left in the park. We had also been to Kootenay National Park earlier in the week and visited Marble Canyon, which in our opinion was so much more beautiful. Marble Canyon in Kootenay was not as deep so you could see the beautiful blue water of the river and the rocks in the canyon were all different colors, so the contract was just beautiful. Malign Canyon was just more tree covered and mossy and muddy, so our visit to Marble Canyon definitely influenced our opinion of Maligne Canyon. We packed up and headed to Edith Cavill, and were so glad we did - the short hike to Angel Glacier is steep but totally worth it! Beautiful Glacial pool and scenery!!!"
"There is a well laid path that takes you along the a length of the canyon. At one end of the the car park there is a drop of point for coaches which can then drive to the other end to pick you up. It is not a long walk, it took us about 20 minutes, but well worth it. You are right at the edge (behind a barrier) so you get a great view. The canyon is only a couple of metres wide but a good hundred or so deep. Often you can hear the waters but not see it - if you have a problem with heights, then this may not be for you.At the end there is refreshments and a shop"
"Wonderful surprise for our Jasper AB vacation. First time visit though we had enjoyed Maligne Lake several times. Great vista views down into this narrow deep canyon and the power of it's non stop rushing tumble water. There are six bridge crossings. The steeper hike was bridge 3 down to bridge 4, but do able. Every section provides you with different rock formations, waterfalls, whirlpools, and photo options. If you are not able to do more than bridge 1 to 2 that's okay stop into the Tea House of a snack and enjoy the outstanding Art Sculptures Shopping Gallery. Excellent works of art.Excellent day here. We drove our car later in the day to bridge 5 and then bridge 6 areas for views of the river. Visited with several hikers that were walking the trail top to bottom and back again. Deer and black bear near by between bridges 5 and 6 roadside ares. Drive carefully and enjoy. A must visit in Jasper."
"The water, the rocks, the forest, the trail, the six bridges and the river, everything is gorgeous! We learned so much about the nature, the beauty!"
This walk along Maligne Canyon was awesome with so much jaw dropping scenery. We went to the fourth bridge as well as the Tea House loop and the views all along the canyon gorge were incredible. The hike was not too strenuous but there were some steeper sections and it took us an hour and a half or so total. Would not take small children. Absolutely recommend!
"Drove up via canyon to lake hoping to see bears etc. Saw no animals but the snow and mountains were awesome, the road good and easy, some pleasant walks when there."
"Maligne Canyon offers many views of the maligne river plunging deep down into the earth. There are many bridges and view points along the trail, so have your camera ready. The upper bridges offer views for everyone, even those with mobility issues. Continuing down the trails offers a challenging hiking."
"Lots of trails, easy to walk, lots of seniors with walking aides on the trails. Not too much elevation to walk, readily accessible."
This canyon is worth seeing. What is unusual is the depth for such a narrow hole in the ground. There are 20 min loops and longer loops with several foot bridges across the canyon.
"If you're looking for something unusual to add variety to your sightseeing, this is a winner. The canyon is spectacular and offers many options in terms of how far you want to go. We found that the best scenery was found just in the first 3 bridges. Two of our party of four ventured all the way to the 6th bridge and agreed that the best scenery was in the first half of the trip. Be aware that the trail can get very muddy and there are some very steep steps between the 2nd and 3rd bridges. Also be aware that there are 2 ways to start the trail. We entered from the end of the parking lot farthest from the restaurant/gift shop and realized on our return that we had missed the whole area from the first to the second bridge, so you will want to start your walk from the the trailhead closest to the restaurant/gift shop."
"This was one of the big surprises of our Canada Tour. We were definitely not expecting what we saw. This is a spectacular monument to the power of water and erosion, and gave us some awesome views. It is definitely worth doing some walking around here to discover the full length of the canyon.The canyon has been rendered easily accessible on foot by the construction of bridges. A quick visit will take 30 minutes... 80 minutes plus for a more thorough exploration."
Go further down the road to big Maligne Lake and hike around to Moose Lake. We sat for 20 min watching ducks chase each other thinking it must be called Duck Lake instead. Went down the path to another section and finally saw a female moose eating grass (?) in the water. Awesome. Nice hiking and easy.
The water flowing through here has created an awesome landscape. The tracks are varied in length and a couple take around an hour to get back to the carpark. To enjoy what there is offered here requires that hour. It is quite step in places so a small degree of fitness is required to get down to the lower levels of the canyon. You can still see something close to the care park. The buses only visit that bit anyway.
"It is the deepest canyon river in rockies and a great walk / trail for taking pictures all along. It's in the Jasper National Park, and be sure to put your walking shoes on."
If waterfalls are your thing you really need to come see these!! Walked from the top (1st bridge) down to the fifth. With every twist and turn of the canyon we were given a different view. The sound of the rushing water and the immense power of the falls were awe inspiring.
There are multiple theories how this gorge was created. It is gorgeous and interesting. Much of the trail is somewhat accessible to all. Keep hold of young children. The bridges provide the best views down into the gorge.
The canyon itself is fascinating and beautiful. Walking down the trail is not too difficult but the return can be very strenuous. Fortunately you can see a lot without having to walk very far. Signage is informative and interesting. Very pretty spot but gets very busy.
"My wife and I are in our mid 50's and not experienced hikers but this hike through the amazing canyon was definitely worth it. We arrived at about 10am.We drove to the Restaurant/Gift Shop and there was lots of room in the parking lot. We chose to do the hike to 5th Bridge. They note it being about 2 hours return and we were just under that time with many stops along the way. We wore good running/trail shoes and dressed in layers. Bring water. The hike to 5th bridge was amazing, it is unbelievable to see how nature and time can create such beautiful sights. The best views of the deep canyon spots are from the bridges along the way (there are six in total, we did five). The trail runs along the river so you get different views of waterfalls and the river the whole way. There is restrooms at the Restaurant so go before. There are outhouses at 5th Bridge but nothing in between. After a spectacular trip to 5th Bridge we headed back. There are several trail options. We chose Trail 7F. It appeared to be the most direct route. It paralleled the trail down but was up higher. There are a few steep parts that raised your heart rate but was certainly doable. Lots of birds and chipmunks along the way. We arrived back at the parking lot just before noon. The lot was full and it was way busier than when we arrived. A definite stop in our opinion when in Jasper (about 20 minutes from town)."
"Its a short drive north of Jasper but well signposted and lots of parking. We parked at the top car park (along with all the tour busses) and just walked down to the canyon and over the first few bridges. The views of the canyons were fantastic, you don't get close to them but from a height you get to take ore in. I'm sure the rest of the walk would have been as lovely but we spent about 2 hours here and didn't see all the bridges."
"We did bridges 1, 2 and 3 and 5. Just loved the views of the mountains, canyon and some of the wild life. The forests are lush, the rivers run full and parking is ample."
"We walked the first 4 bridges on a cold and rainy day. The canyon is so beautiful, the falls impressive. Near the 4th bridge we got a little bit of sun and the little flowers in the moss opened up, it was incredible. Such natural beauty! Im thankful for whoever thought to put in the bridges and path. It would be nice if someone offered a shuttle from the bottom so you could walk the whole thing without someone in the party having to go back and get the car. The restaurant at the top is quite good by the way and really inexpensive!"
"Before going to the Maligne Lake, we stopped here. Glad we did stop to see the canyons and the glacial waters flowing down. During rainy days be careful as the stairs good get slippery."
"We are not such good hikers but the trip is really nice, could make it till the last bridge but we got plenty of view and pictures. Had a really good family time and was something to entertain teenagers that easily get ""bored""."
"This was a very nice walk and can be challenging depending on how far you go, but my concern is that you really can't see down into the canyon unless you are on a bridge. So it can be tough to get some good photos, but I still think it is worth it to visit. Just don't expect it to match other places you will see in the area."
"We were here at the start of our trip - and it was just what I needed. All these waterfalls and lakes gave me plenty of time to just sit and relax, unlike city life. Maligne canyon was beautiful, I think I sat there for about an hour and a half just thinking and mesmerised by the beauty. Its worth a visit!"
Great Canyon for a visit good photo opportunities. Good walking track. Our day was wet but still worth the stop
"It is just amazing. It starts great and gets better. Going down the steps was, despite a very sore foot, not a problem. Good shoes helped. And it is worth every step. But even only from the bridge you experience nature at its best."
The power of the water through this canyon was incredible It was a rainy day but still spectacular. David was a great informative guide.
"Everything about the power of rivers and their effect upon solid rock that I learned in school, I saw here."
They have done a fantastic job of creating paths and bridges so you can view the canyon from many different angles. Well worth a stop but be prepared for a crowd.
Take the path along the top of the canyon for great views of falls in different parts. Fairly easy walk.
Awesome and free! We had no idea what we would see. It is breathtaking. We spent more time here than we intended checking out things lower and you get dumped out into a gift shop
"Beware of scam f serving cheap coffee in place of Starbucks advertised coffee . The tea house barista sweet as sugar ,served us regular watered down coffee and cappuccino in place of Starbucks Americano coffee and flavoured vanilla cappuccino .We paid over 10 dollars for the most expensive coffees.By the time we walked the trail we realized this was the crap coffee , it was too late ."
This is a great place to see some of Canada's wilderness in an accessible environment. The canyon has safe pathways with secure railings and provides the hiker with the option to venture further afield and explore the entire wilderness area. A great example of glacial limestone erosion with spectacular views. If you are limited to the basic paths you might want to pair this site with the Maligne Lake boat cruise.
Drove down into the canyon that leads to this place. Not a sign of a glacier anywhere as it was quite warm. Maligne Lake itself is a boat ramp of a lake . it is a pretty spot and I imagine that in cooler weather it would be okay. There is some Island in it that is supposed to be special..I didn't see it as so.
"If you have limited time, young family or desire a less strenuous hike this is for you! Drive all the way to the top parking lot (7th bridge and restaurant) and start there. Bridge 7 is closer to restaurant and easy to miss, so follow all the people and you'll be at bridge 6. Make sure you go left once you cross to get to bridge 7. Then backtrack, follow the somewhat steep, dirt trail to bridge 5. The magnitude is amazing. The other bridges aren't really worth the hike unless you start at bridge one and have all day without youngsters."
"This is even more beautiful than Mistaya Canyon. Walk back from the 1st to the 4th bridge, it is relatively easy."
"Maybe the best of the beautiful blue glacier fed lake in my opinion. the setting with the small island and trees in the middle, surrounded by stunning scenery sets the day to be filled with wonderment. An easy way to see some typical Canadian beauty."
We stopped after a boat ride to spirit lake. It is so interesting! I would certainly not miss this. Short easy walk.
"We pondered at the start as to whether to do the hike or not - would it be worth it, and it definitely was. The water cascading through the narrow canyon walls is spectacular, and each bridge that you come to offers a new sight and more dramatic effect. It took some time to do all of it, because we decided to really enjoy the experience we took out time and was glad to really let the whole aspect of the canyon sink in. I'm not sure I would do it again, not because it wasn't worth it, but only because there is so many other things to see as well.Strongly suggest this walk for all. Unfortunately, not really a good choice for those with walking difficulty, but if you take your time, the first couple of bridges can be attained. Just take your time, and rest when you need to."
"It is a great canyon river gorge but there are many places where you can barely see anything but the slit in the rock. There are definitely some great parts to this canyon, particularly near the first couple bridges. However, if you are in Jasper or at Maligne Lake you should stop by the top two bridges for the canyon and the last bridge for the mountain stream"
"An easy walk for younger or older folks who wish to witness the rugged beauty and power of nature. Close to town, it's easy to access and you and walk as little or a much as your like. The canyon is rugged and wild. Many bridges let you cross back and forth and provide great vantage points to view the wild little river."
"spent several hours here to walk the bridges, it is beautiful, nice weather, big parking lot, plenty of toilets"
"Just outside of Jasper, drive took about 10 minutes at 7am on a Friday morning. IDK about weekends but there were only 3 other people I encountered while hiking the short 2+ mile loop starting from Bridge 1&2. These two bridges have the really narrow and deep canyons, as you hike downstream, the height of the canyon isn't as steep and the river widens out. Most of the pictures you see are from here.If you don't have the time or prefer not to do much hiking, then park here and you'll get 80% of the good views a short distance from the parking lot.Hike is easier since you're descending but then you still have the hike back. I turned around after reaching the 5th bridge. I didn't visit the 6th bridge which is even further down. If you prefer, start your visit from the 5th bridge parking lot. As you climb, you can take a lot of pictures with frequent stops to make the hike easier."
"The car park and facilities here are better than some of the other scenic places to visit. There is plenty of parking, and the trail around the canyon a pleasant and easy walk."
We spent couple of hours to walk on the trail along the Maligne Canyon. Impressive view from the various bridges. Surroundings are really nice too.
"Short hikes of easy to moderate distance with a bit of elevation change. You cross a couple of bridges to see a beautiful canyon river/falls below. Very photo-worthy.
Overall a must-see experience that won't take too much time."
"A must stop. We did the complete trail back and forth, it took us over two hours but these hours were well spent.
I would do it again tomorrow if I could."
Quick side trip to these falls is worth the time. They are not extensive but are very interesting and the walk through the area is enjoyable. You don't have to spend much time to enjoy the beauty.
"You can start the walk at the top (down), or walk from 5th or 6th bridge up. We started at the top and walked down following the fence line and the canyon. You see the canyon from the top, and at times the gorge is so narrow and deep that you can't see the water at the bottom, but mostly you can and it is fast and furious. We came back a shorter way on the 7f track through the forest, which is much shorter but very steep to start with. Lots of photo ops."
"Very cool to see. If you plan on doing the whole thing, recommend parking at the bottom (towards bridge 5) and taking the top route up through the falls, and then following the lower path along the canyon once you get to the top. The top route is less steep."
Very pretty spot to hike. Different difficulties in hiking trails. Busy spot. Lots of stairs on one side of the trail.
"A very enjoyable stroll in the country along a winding path which follows the canyon,well worth a visit."
"Definitely a must do, if visiting Jasper. I would recommend first driving up to Maligne Lake and taking the lake tour and seeing Medicine Lake beforehand, to get an appreciation of the whole waterflow system which passes through Maligne Canyon. We did this, making it a two day event, as the Maligne Canyon hikes can take some time. Explore as much of the canyon as you are able, as it is well worth the effort."
Almost didn't turn into this scenic location but so glad we did. Returning from the long disappointed drive to the lake decided to try this site.Our intended short look was immediately extended to over an hour. Pictures and videos continued around every turn of the trail.Please don't past this by. The kids will love it.I posted some pixs from the drive to the lake.
A must stop if your going to Maligne Lake. The canyon has a nice hiking trail. Give yourself time to do the trail.
"I like Maligne Canyon more than Athabasca Falls. To see the canyon, we need to walk some distance, while the Athabasca Falls are almost right in front of you after you leave the parking lot."
"Beautiful canyon views (we walked up to Bridge 4 only) but if you have time to do either Athabasca or Maligne, I would choose Athabasca as it offers both the waterfall and canyon views and it is close to the highway."
We started at the top of the canyon and hiked to the 5th bridge. We would have gone to the sixth if we were not pressed for time. I have read that you should start at the sixth bridge and hike to the top as an option. Don't miss this. It's breath taking.
Walked along the trail to the canyon for different shoots of the river and canyon sides Great location good walk Very interesting spot to visit Watch the black rocks when walking as they are slippery even in hiking boots! and dangerous when wet!
What a surprise! We had never seen such a deep and make canyon. There is a nice an easy path along the canyon and a few bridges to cross the canyon. Very worthwhile. The signs along the route explain the history of the canyon.
"You can spend many hours here, walking from top to bottom, or bottom to top! A photographer's dream, set the shutter speed on 1/3 sec or less (with a tripod :) and capture some gorgeous waterfalls."
We did the Maligne Lake and canyon on an organised tour with Alicia as our guide and the experience was terrific. Alecia was so enthusiastic about the history and geology that her mood became infectious. We saw mink in the wild which was a bonus to all of us. The fossils underfoot on the path around the canyon are not obvious but take the time to investigate them. You will need to splash a bit of water on the rocks to see the fossils clearly.
Enjoyed a lovely day hiking here up to bridge 5. We were rewarded with dramatic views. Trails are well marked. Enjoyed lunch by the riverside and came away with memories of stunning landscape.
Okay so I didn't find this as exciting as Athabasca Falls as it's just a canyon but it is a pretty area. It is a pretty view and if you want to hike the whole thing it's about 2km so it's a decent walk if the weather is nice.
Great hike with beautiful views of the river and waterfalls. Do the other trail that is away from the river on the way back and you'll see some great mountain views and views of the valley.
"Although there are some beautiful spots there were a number of things I did not appreciate about this attraction. The canyon is very poorly marked with regards to which trail you are on or even what bridge you are at. My husband is extremely good at reading signage and maps. He had a difficult time understanding the canyon signage. We had picked up a Jasper area trail map in town which was helpful. We came in at bridge 5. Followed Trail #7 along the river until the upper gorge. If you wish not to return the same way, take Trail 7h just past Bridge 2. Trail 7h begins to the right of the north side of Bridge 2. This trail will briefly take you upwards and provide great views of Jasper. The balance of the trail is wooded and goes downhill. Proper walking/hiking shoes would be advisable as there are some steep inclines. Then take Trail 7 to the left which will return you to Bridge 5 and the parking lot. When you are walking in the canyon the trails are not consistently level and many areas go sideways. The canyon is crowded thus making it difficult to maneuver. Personally this was my least favorite attraction. I would not return."
"Beautiful canyon, hiking down from upper parking to fifth bridge is easy and amazing walk beside the river.Take your time to enjoy every bridge view."
"The views of the canyon were spectacular, the hike along the river and canyon were amazing. The only draw back is the closer you get to the first bridge (there are 6 bridges), the more people there are (tour buses and people who use the parking lot and don't want to go on a hike) I started at the 5th bridge, but only because there was bear activity. the hike wasn't very strenuous and the views were amazing. Although it wasn't a really long hike, only a couple of kilometers, it took a couple of hour because of all the amazing views of the canyon."
We drove to Maligne Lake via Maligne Canyon where we walked some of the trails and took some great photos. Make sure you stop at Medicine Lake on the way. It is beautiful too and sometimes in Summer is empty and you can see the sinkholes
"be sure to stop and see this amazing work of nature. Powerful, rock cutting falls. Hard to express the beauty and force of nature at work."
"Just visited here. The canyon is so beautiful. It would be better if there was a bus to take you back to the parking lot from the 6th bridge as it is a long walk back uphill. We only went to the 4th bridge then turned around, but it was so worth the walk!"
"The Maligne Canyon is incredible deep, for years the river has carved the bedrock to this narrow canyon it is. You can walk along the picturesque canyon for a long distance."
"We started at Bridge 6 and hiked the entire circuit of the 6 bridges clockwise, which brought us downhill through Bridges 1-5. The canyon is a unique geological phenomenon and the views of the river extraordinary. The first bridges are easily accessible by the tour buses, so you will see lots of people there, but they thin out rapidly as you get to the lower bridges."
"It was OK for a visit, the canyon is pretty enough but felt very busy and touristy. We ended up cutting our trip short because of all the crowds and tarmac routes. My other half described it as feeling like 'an attraction' rather than nature."
This is a beautiful place and well worth going to. The trails are well laid out with information as to difficulty.
"Arrived early, did 4 of 6 bridges and probably almost reached bridge 5 before whinging kids got the better of us! Good views of canyon for varying heights but preferred Johnston Canyon in Banff. Was fairly empty of people 8am which was a real plus."
This was a great walk and the kids liked looking into the canyon ad we walked along. The walkway was a bit slippery in the rain so be careful. Great chance to explore an awesome geographic feature.
Took the family here and we all enjoyed the hike. We spent over an hour hiking around the canyon. Had nice weather and that makes all the difference.
"Love walking this trail and marveling at the power of water cutting into rock. Breathe in the fresh, clear, cool air and feel the mist coming off some of the falling or rushing water. Wear comfy and grippy shoes and bring a water bottle and camera."
"make sure you are up for hiking. started at bridge 1, walked to bridge2 and got tired. But don't give up...hike to bridge 3 and 4. (didn't make it). drove to bridge 5 and then to bridge 6 - great river adventures here...quiet picnic area and place to throw stones in the water...sploosh! Yay!!"
There are a range of lengths of walks here which make it really accessible to varying degrees of fitness levels. We really enjoyed the walk. Can get quite busy with different guided walks.
"This is a magnificent half day hike with great access to a roaring tumbling river and an 80 plus foot falls in a very narrow deep gorge.You have options to explore this wonder. The first is to start at the large parking lot by the first bridge near the tea house and walk down past the second, third and even fourth bridges, crossing the gorge and making a loop back to the parking lot. The most dramatic part the hike including the falls are seen by the time you reach the fourth bridge. If you would like a little more exercise, you have the option of starting at the 5th bridge and walking uphill to the other bridges. Your eventually reach the first bridge and can retrace you steps. It should take no more than 3 hours unless you stop at the tea house above the first bridge for refreshments. We did the uphill hike from the 5th bridge, had a light snack at the tea house and then walked back downhill to the car. My kind of hiking. Do stop in at the tea house. It's really a restaurant and gift shop with some very high end art. There are at least a dozen paintings for sale by Novelle Mirasou, a noted Native American artist. These are museum quality pieces and not what you would expect to find in a tea house. This is a great half day activity to combine with a cruise on Lake Maligne, which is another 35 km up the road."
"This was a great hike, we had a chance to diverge a bit on a path that was not as well travelled. It was just the two of us, but the buffalo berry bushes had been well foraged along the way so we were not as concerned about bears. There were some open meadows and signs of wildlife but no actual wildlife unfortunately."
"We hiked the 1st, 2nd, 3rd and 4th, but stopped short of the 5th bridge. It's too far apart from the 4th bridge. But then later on, we found that there's a road from the main road to the Malign Canyon for car to go to the 5th and 6th bridge"
"We parked at the 5th bridge and walked all the way along the canyon up to the Maligne lodge which is a round trip,of about 1h30 with spectacular views of the canyon."
"We did the hike from bridge # 5 to bridge # 1 (5km return) where the restaurant and gift shop are located. It is an easy and most pleasant hike, until you approach bridge # 1 where the busloads of tourists are dumped and whose main purpose in visiting the canyon is to take selfies."
Maligne Canyon is a great hike and beautiful. The views are amazing and highly recommend it to anyone. It's in Jasper and not far from the jasper gates. Bring your camera because your going to want to remember this.
Fantastic falls very dramatic. Saw a grizzly with cub on the way there. Not many tourists there. Went on a part sunny day & took a picnic.
"The trail guide says it's an easy hike, but many parts are quite steep. There are 2 or 3 trails, and parts are paved because there are so many visitors. The ravine is dramatic in places, but I found other trails around Jasper more rewarding. I think this one is visited a lot because of it's proximity to Jasper."
"After having dinner in Jasper, we headed for a nice evening drive to Maligne Lake. Super nice to do later in the day, saw some beautiful lakes as well as sheep along the road - even caught a gorgeous sunset on the way back."
This canyon is deep and beautiful. It is a super cool place to wander around. You can pick a short or long hike as there are many different bridges to cross at.
The canyon is beautiful and changes around every bend. The kids enjoyed touching the blue glacial water and feel how cold it is.
"It is amazing what a little water can do over thousands of years. The canyon was spectacular, with the five bridges it gives you different vantage points of the canyon, Well worth the visit and very close to Jasper. Make sure you park at the second bridge, this lets you start at the top of the Canyon."
Absolutely enjoyed this hike! The views are great and you can hike all the way to the 6th bridge if you wish Or just to the first bridges! This hike is worth it.
There are awesome views of the canyon from the second bridge to the fifth bridge. The hike is an easy one with fences for your protection and views of the river and flora all around you.
"The canyon is only a short drive from Jasper and has lots of amenities including a huge car park and a large restaurant that had a whole range of Gluten Free options for my wife who is a Coeliac and was very excited about this! The walkways and bridges across the canyon make it very accessible and offer some brilliant views of the river, the falls and the surrounding area. A very interesting and enjoyable few hours were spent exploring here."
"We had never heard of this before we went, we found it on Trip Advisor, as a recommended attraction. I'm so glad we went! It's a beautiful canyon! We read some reviews before we went, and followed some advice to start at the tea House & hike to the 3rd bridge... The hike to the 1st & 2nd bridge was easy, I would say very easy, I think pretty much anyone could do it. The hike past the 2nd bridge to the 3rd, was not easy, but it wasn't too hard. It's just a pretty steep incline, there are some stairs, & some hills. But I would still say that most everyone could do it. The path is paved for the most part, which makes the hike a lot easier. It was raining when we went, which made some of the path a bit slippery, and we definitely got wet, but it was worth the time, effort, & cold/wet to see it. We will definitely be going back next time we pass through! We both loved it! (Next time we will definitely be checking out the rest of the canyon as we only made it to bridge 3 of 6)"
Don't miss Maligne Canyon. Outstanding scenery and it is a different experience walking through this area compared to the beautiful scenery of the lakes and mountains. A must do. Definitely worth it. Dont think I have seen anything like this anywhere in the world. And its free!!!
"In previous visits we missed bridge one, and walked from bridge two to four. This time we started from the restaurant and just walked bridges one and two, which if you are short on time is a good option. You can do bigger hikes along the whole canyon if you have time. Great natural feature, a must do."
We hiked from the fifth bridge to the top and return to the starting location at fifth bridge. It took us total of 2 hours. This is a nice hike. One suggestion - you can start at the top and walk downhill to the fifth bridge - this takes only one hr and most of the hike is downhill and you get all the views without having to do the same trek uphill. This does require a member of your party to drop you at the top and pick you up at the fifth bridge.
The canyon is interesting and a nice spot for a short time. We followed up with Maline lake. I do not recommend unless you are out of things to do. Easy to get to . But just ordinary
We were awed by this narrow deep colorful canyon. We didn't walk the full distance. We took the short 20 minute loop. We did however turn off the road onto the 6th Bridge road and viewed the confluence of the very green Maligne River into the milky green of the Athabasca River.
"Visited Maligne canyon for a short stop on the way to Maligne Lake cruise. A very easy walk around the first two bridges over the canyon. Spectacular scenery. We toured with Maligne Lake Tours, and our guide, Maree was very competent, knowledge and personable."
"A must-see! Start your walk at the teahouse and gift shop and walk to at least the 2nd Bridge (30 min's return). If you have time, go all the way to the 5th Bridge (2-3 hrs return). The teahouse is actually a restaurant with a full-service breakfast menu, a special appetizer menu on Friday, Saturday and Sunday evenings, in addition to top-quality homemade menu items for lunch and snacks in between. The gift shop features sculpture, painting, and carvings by some of Canada's most renowned Native and Inuit artists, as well as jewelry, books, and a great selection of quality items to take home a memory."
"Only had 45minutes to look around here on our bus tour and I still don't think this was enough time! Not a very deep canyon, but a spectacular one in any case. Plenty of photographic opportunities exist here and is very popular. Safety fencing exists and there is a few bridges/vantage points, a gift shop, cafe and bathrooms here."
"We parked at the fifth bridge and hiked up the canyon along the water. There are many opportunities to stop and rest or shoot a photo. Very steep as you near the top of the canyon, but then you get to go down at the end of the hike. There are informational stations along the way as well. We started out around 9am and it wasn't crazy crowded. Beauty around every bend!"
"Pales into insignificance compared to the mountains and glaciers, but good for families, lazy people etc
A little crowded and boring, but good for a quiet hour or two out.
Views are limited due to being in a canyon."
"Most of Maligne Canyon are easy to navigate but there are some areas that are steep, have stairs, or are slippery. There are several bridges that cross the canyon. I think most people would appreciate a really good detailed map of the area before they start hiking."
"Nice place to see the beautiful Maligne River flowing through the canyon. We went as far as the third bridge but you can traverse the entire canyon which has a total of 6 bridges. Plenty of spots for pictures, or just getting the ""good tidings"" of the sounds of flowing water."
Maligne canyon is a short but beautiful hike through the canyon. Get to the top and find the waterfall overlooking the canyon itself.
We stopped by Maligne Canyon on our way back from Maligne Lake and were happy we stopped by to see the canyon. There is a trail that can be walked up and down the canyon but as we didn't have time to walk the trail we just went close to the parking lot which gives good views of the canyon.
Excellent food and atmosphere. There was a bunch of us for appies and drinks. It was so much fun. Great views and one of the best walks/hikes in the Rockies.
"I love to visit the Canyon itself, it truly is a fantastic gem in Jasper! After a stroll, I enjoy a lovely meal at the Tea House! The artwork is phenomenal. The friendliness of the staff makes you always feel welcome!Lovely food, enticing setting, one feels at ease! Andrea Dionne AKA Happy Feather"
Maligne Canyon is worth the trip to see at least the canyon through at least the first 3 bridges. The force of the river has cut away amazing rock formations especially towRds bridge 1&2. We hiked down to bridge 4 and then drove to bridge 5 to see what the river looked like there. I enjoyed all the various facets of the canyon down through around the 4th bridge area. One does need to hike up to return to the parking lot but you have the sound and sights of the river to accompany you. I believe we were at the bridge 1-4 area and hiked down and back within a little more than hour.
Absolutely loved the Maligne Canyon. There are 6 bridges to get to on a very safe path. The flow and sound of the water is incredible. Easy getting down to the 6th bridge harder coming back as you are climbing steps etc however it's worth the effort. And it's free!!
Very impressive canyon which is has relatively easy access. The day we went was pretty warm so found the climb back up a little tough but not impossible.
"The place is very beautiful, with amazing views of the mountains and the river, especially if you follow the trails to the lower parts of the river. I recommend trying the alternative routes, escaping the crowds."
"Again, I think the key is to be there early in the morning. The paths are small and become very crowded. We were there early in the morning and thoroughly enjoyed the walks along the canyon"
"We spent a couple of hours here, took a leisurely pace and enjoyed the beautiful scenery. If you miss this stop while you are in the area, you'll have missed a highlight of the area."
We had great hikes along the Malign Canyon river; it is fairly easy most part with steps and side fence. Great views and waterfalls too.
This is a beautiful place to visit. We walked from the 1st bridge to the 6th which took in total 2.5 hrs. Parts are uphill but so worth it. Take lots of water. There is a cafe / restaurant at the top where you could either stop for a break or park here and do half the hike if you wanted. I highly recommend visiting.
"This hike is unique because you can make it as short or as long as you want. I was planning to start from bridge 5 up, but it turned out that we didn’t have time to do a longer hike so we changed our plans on the spot. We ended up starting from the top and going down to bridge 4 instead. This allowed us to see the canyon without spending 2 hours here. This is a very deep canyon and the views are beautiful. I am sure the rest of the hike is just as interesting, but if your plans change you can adjust the length of this hike and still see the main feature. We had no trouble finding parking, but the trail was quite busy in the morning."
"Popular spot for visitors and rather crowded with some narrow walkways. Although its called a canyon, it is more like a deep narrow gorge and as such, quite impressive. But don't think of the usual US canyons when seeing this gorge."
This was my first look at The Rockies and it didn't disappoint. Great views on the walk. I did a 5km walk which was enjoyable. There were shorter and longer options available.
Beautiful and amazing what nature can do. The best sight to visit when staying in jasper. A bit out of town.
"Lovely and beautiful drive back to Lake Maligne, look out for Big Horn Sheep on the road. The Big Horn Sheep like to follow the road for the salt licks. Mother and babies in one group. THen look for the Rams to be on there own"
"Worth it! Great for families, enjoyable, easy walk. On a slope, for those who are not steady on their feet. Attached restaurant has excellent quality food!"
"We stopped here and it was amazing! There is a number of trails all linked together and this canyon is one of the stops. It was a bit steep getting to canyon and the trails leading further down the canyon were very steep. As a beginner, I had gone far enough."
Several had told us not to miss the canyon on the way to Maligne Lake. We visited bridge 1 and 2 and then I went down to Bridge 3 (and back up!). Awesome!!! The Teahouse also has a nice tourist store.
"My boyfriend and I hiked from 5th Bridge to the Canyon. The trail got more and more crowded as you got closer to the canyon (with other people arriving from the closer bridges / parking lots), but the canyon was cool. If you've come here looking for a difficult hike, though, keep looking. The trail was paved a lot of the way, and was mostly flat."
"We were a little confused about where to 'start' this hike. We read about various bridges and didn't exactly know how it worked. We were 4 adults and 4 kids (ages 6-12).So hopefully, I can explain it. Coming from Jasper, you drive up this road and you can park at various places to view the Canyon. We parked at ""Bridge 5"" and started there (I think there are 6 bridges total and we sort of didn't understand so we ended up at Bridge 5). Most people, it seems, parks at Bridge 1, which is further UP the road and walk 'down' to the Canyon. Bridges 1-3 are fairly close together. So most people do just those.Bridges 6-5 are at the 'bottom' and you walk UP. But we decided we'd rather walk up first and return on a downhill than vice versa. Plus we wanted to see more of the Canyon. But generally speaking, on this hike, you are not IN the canyon, but more looking at it from above. As opposed to Johnston Canyon in Banff where you are more 'in' the canyon.But overall, this hike was easy. And I'm 44 and not in hiking shape by any means. I only had a 3-4 minute section where I was huffing and puffing like the big bad wolf.My husband, who was clearly a mountain goat in his former life, offered to hike back down, get the car, and drive it back up to the Bridge 1 parking area (Visitor's Center/Gift Shop) for us. After much arm twisting, we accepted and shopped in the gift shop. He said he ran down for the most part and it only took him about 20 minutes to get to the car.I absolutely recommend going and then continue on to Maligne Lake. NOTE: If you do this and the lake, you're probably going to want to pack some lunch - this is pretty much an all day affair or at the very least several hours assuming you just drive by it all."
This is an easy site to access and well worth the visit. There are well marked paths that enable good sight-lines and great views of the canyon.
"Another must see attraction in the Jasper area: along a river/canyon; for hikers can be approached from one of the bridges down river , or for easier access from the main parking area where the majority of visitors alight ( and which has an adjacent cafe ( good food), shops, outside restrooms).Apart from the first 50 yds or so, the walk is steep and will get slippery in wet weather, but worth the effort. Quite different from most other river hikes in the area. Allow an hour from the main parking for a short tour. Up and down the river needs about 4 hrs with stops to take in the scenery."
"This is a beautiful hiking area. The canyons and River are beautiful. The path is easy to walk and some of the hike is on a boardwalk. Wear good shoes and bring water. If you come during the winter, the ice canyons and frozen waterfalls are spectacular. There is a outhouse in the parking lot"
This short hike is great especially if you are planning to do the Maligne Lake Cruise. Is is along the same access road. It offers spectacular views of rushing river and a number of water falls. It is very steep in places. It is a lot like the Johnson's Canyon Hike (along the Bow Valley Parkway). It takes about 2-3 hours.
"Park at the 6th bridge and hike to th top of the canyon it is about a 1.5 hour hike and is good for families with younger kids my 7 & 10 year old did it with little trouble. Filled with waterfalls, bridges, and breaking views it is well worth the walk.. Stop at the top for a drink and lunch before you decent backdown to your vehicle."
"I can't count how many times I've visited over-hyped places crawling with tourists. Maligne Canyon should fit that theme, but in fact – the natural scenery left my jaw-open. Sure there are tourists, but it's not crawling with them like the nearby Columbia ice fields.This is an easy walk with lots of great picture opportunities. To make it longer, start from 6th bridge."
"This is a special experience. The boat trip is a memorable one.
There is so much hidden behind the scenes."
"When in Jasper National Park, do not miss stopping by Maligne Canyon! We took a leisurely 3-hour hike along the Six Bridges trail and thoroughly enjoyed the numerous views of the canyon, waterfalls, etc. Walk the entire trail to be sure you don't miss a beautiful view! It's a relatively easy walk if you are wearing proper footwear. No sandals or flip flops! What gorgeous scenery!"
Worth a visit if you can find a parking spot. Gets very busy in the summer but the hike down the canyon can be done in stages. Shows how water has sculpted the shape of the canyon.
Lovely attraction but very busy. Recommend parking at fifth bridge and walking up the canyon. Get trail map and return via a different route.
Beautiful hike to see the maligne canyon after lake maligne cruise. The only part to warn is that it is uphill and a little strenuous on the way back.
very beautiful canyon. water colors are amazing . take the time to enjoy the view and the river trail
"A easy 15 minute drive from Jasper is this natural beauty. Another popular site try to get in early and be ready for lots of hiking following the canyon trails and the river to see picturesque exposed rock and landscape. The trails go as long as the time you want to spend there, we got to the 5th bridge as we had more to see in the area."
"I only wish my knees had been up to walking the entire trail. All the same, fantastic views and good rest areas along the way. Even my 80-something mother walked some of the trail. I liked the explanation of the name too (a French voyageur purportedly found it a ""wicked"" river to cross)."
"Several good viewing locations from a walk of only a mile or so, to see this fast flowing and very deep gorge"
This canyon is different because it is very narrow and very deep. I we went to bridge for and it took us about 30 to 45 minutes round-trip. A very pleasant walk. Steps are provided in some of the steeper areas. I highly recommend this.
A must do! Very little effort involved to see the beautiful and stunning canyon. Park and walk in a loop. Look into forest too
Not that exciting and I suggested continue driving to medicine lake and the adjoining area. The burnt forrest is interesting in its sadness and should not be missed.
The canyon and falls offer awesome views and hiking trails. You may even get to observe some wildlife. You can see the power of nature in the canyon after millennia of wearing down the stone by rushing water. The area allows for hiking for all ages and skills.
"Really relaxing walk around, not many people. The canyon was amazing how the water has worked it's way down through the rock. We'll kept location. Missed the last 2 points but will do them next time."
"Great stop on the way to Maligne Lake, the canyon offers a nice trail that follows the canyon. Its quite deep in some spots over 40M deep."
"Spent an hour hiking and taking photos along the canyon walkway. This is a must-see place. This is a great example of the claims that ""erosion happens."""
We started from bridge 1 parking lot and made it down to the fifth bridge. Beautiful stunning views from many spots along this mostly downhill hike on some uneven terrain. The loop back we chose the 7h path which has an initial steep incline but levels off and gives the hiker a beautiful high perched view of the canyon. Great place!
This is a good hours or so hike if not more to walk around the various view points of the canyon. There are some steep climbs from time to time. Carry water and cap for sure in summer.
We visited this amazing place but my stomach did circles as I tried to reach over and snap a photo. The power of water is amazing!! The water rushes down with such force! A sight to behold!
"start at the Sixth Bridge and walk toward the first bridge, and take the lower trail next to the water. well worth the hiking!"
"Beautiful stop on the way to Maligne lake cruise. It's easy hike, you can access all bridges on this hike."
"Excellent hike. Quite steep from bridge#1 to bridge # 4 , but very do-able. My suggestion is to start at the canyon and work your way down so you don't over extend yourself. This way you can judge the distance and difficulty and know when you've had enough. Some breathtaking views!"
"The hike up Maligne canyon is one of the must-do walks while in Jasper. But instead of going straight to the visitor centre as the tour buses do, stop and park at the 6th bridge, and then walk along the river to the top.In the summer you'll need to be at the 6th bridge parking area before 10AM to ensure a space. Then it's a relatively flat walk to the 5th bridge, before starting the uphill hike to the 1st bridge. As you walk further the water flows faster and the views get better.Enjoy a cuppa at the top and browse in the shop (which actually has many items cheaper than downtown Jasper), before walking back the way you came. I would say it's about 3.5 miles each way.And of course, don't forget your camera!!"
"And we love this canyon because we finally saw two moose, a brown bear, AND a herd of big horn sheep. Driving down to the canyon, you also pass Medicine Lake, a ""disappearing"" lake."
The Canyon is beautiful and the waterfall is powerful. There is a decent cafeteria style lunch place at one end of the car park. You can spend an hour or all day and certainly the first two bridges were worth the time and minimal effort. i suggest stopping here for lunch and and a walk around after spending the morning at Maligne Lake.
Very scenic canyon hike with minimal elevation gains (depending on how far you travel). There are some up and down areas but mostly downward as you head from the main upper parking lot closest to the gift shop/restaurant. I went as far as the 5th bridge and back which took me a little under 2 hours while stopping for photos and a little rest at the 5th bridge. Took the higher trail (7f) on the return which gave a higher viewpoint of the canyon area and some better photos in some areas. Very enjoyable hike and should be on everyone's list of things to do while in Jasper.
My wife and I just came back from Maligne Lake and decided on our way back to Jasper to drop by Maigne Canyon before dinner. It is an incredible canyon coupled with an incredible hike. A must do!
"Short drive off the highway and pretty crowded, even in the late afternoon but still impressive and worth seeing. One side of canyon has paving and a chain link fence which makes sense for safety but the other side is a dirt trail without a fence (and has fewer tourists)."
great morning hike. tea shop at top worth a visit. worth using one of the various other routes down to avoid the other tourists :)
The canyon is right beside the road to Maligne Lake & not far off the main Edmonton highway. It would be a mistake not to stop there as the Canyon is a fantastic sight to see the water cascading down through the rocks. There is a good path following the water down with story boards relating the geological history of the area. The shop has an amazing array of artistic work for sale & the restaurant has a good selection for meals & snacks. But you can stop here & see the sights for free.
It is better to start this hike from bridge 6. Fairly easy trail with some vertical steps. E felt the best views were around bridges 4 and 5. Continued on 7 going up the canyon along the water all the way to bridge 1. Came back in 7h which was the faster route back along the topside of the mountain and was back in under an hour. Great waterfalls and river views. Much less crowded than starting at Bridge 1 but parking lot is smaller.
"Hiked from the car park to the sixth bridge, and back along the high trail. The hike down was easy enough and pleasant as the river was flowing fast. Highly recommended to go beyond the fifth bridge to the sixth bridge, but I would suggest taking the middle path back as the high path was quite steep."
Nice tour before heading to Maligne lake. Our guide Marie was exceptionally knowledgeable. Loads of history involving these canyons & lake.
"This is a great spot for the family. Lots to explore, see and do. Just don't be a tourist who steps up to the ledge or lets their kids run right up to cliff edges. So calming and great for families - Maligne is one of our favs when we visit the Jasper area!"
This was an easy hike with spectacular views but the trail maps are brutal to try & figure out. Talked to others that didn't know which way to go as well so we just winged it and turned out great.
"Park at bridge #6 and hike to the canyon, so really see the change of the river when you go upstream. Going back you can make a nice loop."
4 adults and one almost 3 year old - the adults in shape found this a moderate hike (quite a steep climb depending on which route you take) and the toddler almost made it the whole way. The out of shape adult struggled but still loved it. A very busy hiking spot but worth it!
"It was so beautiful and so close to nature. Waters, mountains and trees at its very best. Just few minutes of walk from the main road."
Excellent 2 hr walk around the gorge This nature walk will initiate you to the power of water cutting through stone and making a fabulous gorge. There are many view points and places to take pictures. Once at the bottom there is an easier parallel trail to hike back to the parking lot.
"Easy to walk to see canyon.
Hiking trails for more adventures. Gift shop with unique things as well as usual souvenirs. Friendly helpful staff.
Plan 1.5 hrs longer if you plan to hike.
Visit was late afternoon and not so busy."
Really! Don't drive past - stop off on way to/from the lake. It's a second level of awesomeness. 6 bridges over very narrow deep gorge with crashing waterfalls that take your breath away. The first & second quite accessible along flat paths.After that it's steps steeply down (& up again). My iPhone told me I'd climbed 22 staircases to get back up (whatever that means) so it's not strenuous for the mobile. But make that detour - it's really worth it.
"If you are travelling with someone who doesn't like to hike or if you are a company with two cars - this would be a great opportunity to start at one place and finish at another, without return hike. But if you like nice walk - this is a beautiful place to be. Definitely take this hike and enjoy it."
The colors and textures were so vivid. I had not imagined a place so beautiful. A couple of falls are easily accessible but most require some serious hiking on the way back up. This is a very popular place so try to go early in the morning.
"We visited Maligne Canyon and have to say it was fantastic! We arrived at the main parking lot for Bridges 1 - 4 early (around 8am) and it was very quiet. We were the only people at the canyon on the way to bridge 4, but when we got back it was getting really busy. I see a lot of reviews saying go to bridges 5 & 6 and not 1 - 4 and I cannot fathom why. We also drove to bridges 5 & 6 (they're a VERY long walk from 1 - 4) to check them out, but were not impressed at all. They are NOTHING like bridges 1 - 4 and are merely a bridge over a river. There was no canyon whatsoever, making me wonder how people compare them?Suffice it to say, bridges 1 - 4 were incredible. The deep canyons are awe inspiring and you can just see the power of the rivers cutting through it. I've never seen anything like it personally. One issue is taking a photograph that does this place justice. Most photos I seen didn't paint a great picture and the ones I took were largely disappointing compared to what you actually see. You have to see this place in person to get the real taste, photos do not do it justice!In summary, bridges 1 - 4 are excellent and only take around an hour to do (return). Bridges 5 & 6 really were nothing special, just a bridge over a river like any other river in the Rockies."
"Great hike, despite the heat. The scenery is great. The kids were facinated by the canyon and forgot they were walking. Not fond of the teahouse."
"So, so pretty! I would have given it five stars if we hadn't just been to Marble Canyon in Kootenay Natl Park, but this canyon is certainly not hard to take! If you're going to Maligne (pronounced mah-LEEN) Lake, you need to stop here. It's just five minutes out of Jasper."
"Lovely location, great pafh to follow wifh viewing areas. I really loved the fact that following it along you came to where it widened into a river, anothed must go placd."
"We came across the canyon and spontaneously decided to stop it, not expecting much. WOW! We we ever wrong! What a beautiful and awe inspiring setting. It is definitely worth the stop."
"There are total six bridges to hike,but you need to go 4 bridges enough for picture and sight seeing.On the way back,look for the other way to go up without step,much faster."
This canon was one of the most beautiful places I've seen. It is spectacular for its views and trails. I must say that you do need lots of water and good shoes if you plan on doing the trails. Some hills are very steep but worth it at the top/bottom. You can also take a horseback trail too which would be so much fun. Next time I'm doing that. I hope to be there soon to do it all again.
"Amazing area to visit be it for the walking, waterfalls or wildlife. Make sure to bring or photography."
This is a must see!! Take your time and hike the whole canyon if you can if not you can still drive from point to point! You are going to need time to complete this and the restaurant and gift shop up top is a must see!
"Great experience, well design and maintained trail. Great natural beauty. The off trail spot that they created are all amazing."
"We hiked for two hours to the canyon and back from a parking lot at the sixth bridge.the hike along the water was awesome. There is a restroom and garbage at the parking lot.bring water to drink.the waterfalls and water coming out through underground caves was stupendous ,as are the mountains and alpine trees around.it was a relatively easy hike"
"This is a must if you are in Jasper. The tunnels the water flow has created; each corner is beautiful and different. As you walk down you can see some fossils. The nature has trapped a fallen rock in between, that was an awesome sight too; eventually it will fall into the canyon. This was part of a day tour and we didn't get enough time for this attraction. Keep at least 2 hr to walk around and take all in. Lots of photo opportunities. I could only imagine how magnificent it will be in the winter season! I would love to be back then!"
"Easy to moderate hike along the canyon. Hear the sound of the water the entire hike. If you have problems walking this might be a little difficult with the up and downs. However, you can go as far as you want and turn around. Beautiful forest walk with shade most of the time. The color of the water is so blue. Lots of places to stop and rest. So glad we did this hike."
"Very nice stop, so many different views. You can take a walking trail all the way to the bottom but remember to have to walk all the way back up! Really beautiful!"
"We hiked the canyon, starting at Bridge 6, and heading towards the Falls near the parking lot. Choose the route closest to the Canyon as you walk. It is beautiful. We returned on the path up the hill, which has some lovely views of neighboring mountains."
A relatively short hike but amazing views throughout the walk. The depth of the Canyon in places is incredible. The walk can be completed in different distances. Great restaurant at the top of the walk for coffee and cakes and much more.
Be sure and stop here for a walk around Maligne Canyon. Each observation area is different and unique even though it is the same canyon. The water has done some beautiful things to the limestone over the thousands of years. Well worth the stop!
"A must-see sight in Jasper. I'm a big hiker, so we will start at sixth bridge and hike all the way up to the top of the canyon. If that's too strenuous, start at the top and work your way down to third bridge. It is an awe-inspiring sight. Again, early mornings and late afternoon/early evening to avoid crowds."
"This was a taste of what nature does best, especially water gouging its way through rocks and creating wonderful sights"
"We were on our way back from Maligne Lake and decided to take the turn to the canyon. The lake was pretty but the canyon was outstandingly beautiful. There are 3 possible walks, easy, moderate, and more rigorous. We took the moderate trail. It was very doable. The canyon was different than anything we'd seen before. The colors and the water are fascinating. Worth the time and energy!!"
"The boat trip on Maligne Lake is a must-see in the Jasper area, the scenery further along the lake is stunning and I believe only accessible by boat. It's quite a long drive out to the lake so I would recommend buying your tickets in Jasper beforehand to avoid disappointment."
"Stroll this canyon and enjoy the waterfalls! This is a busy trail and very understandable after seeing the waterfalls. There are many photo opportunities along this trail. There are several looping trail options and all are well marked. As you progress further along this trail, the crowds thin and the peaceful water sounds take over. Definitely head toward Bridge 5, the falls are not as spectacular but, it is beautiful. Take your time and enjoy this beautiful canyon."
"The canyon looks beautiful, you can see the history of how the water is able to crave the rocks over the thousands of years."
"The sights here are very beautiful but the easy access has turned the upper sections into a zoo, keep walking down canyon and the crowds thin significantly. It is a very easy hike but I believe the uphill return keeps people near the top. Their loss, seeing the cave system that feeds part of the stream is very cool."
"There are several trails some hikes lasting as long as a couple of hours, if you want the easiest, turn in at the tea house and there is a fairly easy loop plus restrooms, try to get there before 10am as the buses start turning up ."
"This is a dramatic canyon that has eroded the rock face to amazing depth. From the main car park it is an easy walk from bridge 1 to 4, which can be done within an hour comfortable. The path is good and rises and falls, some with steps and some not. But is not a strenuous walk. Bridges 5 and 6 and not as spectacular but is a nice walk. Bridge 5 to 6 is 2.1km one way. You can drive to bridges 5 and 6 separately. The walk back from bridge 6 is to first return to bridge 5 and the take the very steep 7H track straight up and over the mountain, which is the shortest way. There is not a lot of dramatic scenery for bridges 5 and 6."
"With a short drive from Jasper, the canyon trail goes from the sixth bridge down to the first (which is the main parking area) and gets busier along the way. the paths are laid out so you can go as far as you want and then turn or circle back, and the further you get, the less people you deal with. Deep canyons and water rapids enclosed by fences so this is a safe trail."
You just have to grin and bear it behind the slow traffic on the narrow road. It is worth the drive onward to Maligne Lake. Bear in mind not as many people make it to Maligne Canyon or Lake as get to Banff and it's attractions but there are plenty of visitors about. Didn't see a moose at Moose Lake though we did see bears whilst driving on Maligne Road.
"Born in Edmonton, I came to Jasper many times as a youth. Now decades later on a family vacation, I've made my first visit to Maligne Canyon and can't understand why I've never been before. It's a fantastic bit of natural history. Not to be missed."
"We hiked up to the top of the canyon from the 6th bridge (longest) - you can start at any of the bridges. 6th to 5th is flat and along the river but mainly in the woods; it is also the quietest part of the hike.From the 5th bridge there is a steeper climb as you start to move into the canyon - still light, and more people on the trail now. The trails are easily marked, and we chose to take the higher path away from the river/canyon, and take the river walk on the return. On the whole it took us 60 minutes to get to the top - we are fairly quick walkers - and we were shocked how short this was! At the top of the canyon there is a parking lot, bathrooms, large gift shop and a cafeteria with awesome food. We returned to the 6th bridge with the trail closer to the canyon/river. There are a lot more people coming down from the top of the canyon, and we actually preferred the other quieter trail - but the view of the canyon and river is beautiful.All in all, it took us about 3 hours with many stops, photos, and a cup of tea."
"This trail has around 6 stops. Somewhat a hike after first 2.
The canyon is beautiful and multiple falls. We just spot black bears just as we drove out of the canyon exit."
"We really enjoyed Maligne Canyon. The views are amazing, and the trails are very well-kept. There are lots of safety fences to prevent people from falling in to the canyon, and the trails are well-marked and maintained nicely. There is lots of parking available, and the hike can be very short or quite long, depending on how far you choose to go. However, even if you only go to the first two bridges and then turn back, you will have seen incredible canyon views!"
"Awesome how much, water can make its own route and not even rock can stop or change it's mind it will work past any obstacle"
"A great walk for young and old. The hike can be short with minimal elevation changes and still some wonderful views, very short and stroller or mobility impaired friendly (like 20 minute), or up to i think 1/2 day with some change in elevation and better views. I thought that was nice. Elderly people and serious hikers and parents with smalls can all enjoy these trails in whatever way they like. Yay."
It's crowded like everything else in Jasper in the summer but gentle hike through the canyon is worth the effort. Traveling further on up to Maligne Lake is also worth the effort.
Beautiful and worth the walk. People of all ages can do this paved trail. It is safe for children who are kept behind the railings.
"We took the boat cruise to Spirit island. We didn't get to do the hiking, but was still worth it. Good for seniors as well, as not much walking. The scenery was amazing! Recommend it for sure"
"The trail has different routes. Short trip about 15 mins. Longer trip follows the water rushing through the canyon. Well marked until it splits off for a two hour round trip trail. The trip back basically doing a loop, follows the water trail but it is up higher in the grass on a steep ledge. Not much to see on that part. I should have just done the first half again backwards for better views. Some parts of the trail lead to another parking lot. Had to back track but there are washrooms there. A gift shop and restaurant are at the start. So if young kids or elderly are with you and finish first they have somewhere to sit and eat or shop! Worth seeing."
"Beautiful hike! We started from the sixth bridge, walking up. On the way back we went down, so it was easier. Each part of the canyon one can see different views and it is very powerful. Plan your time since it can take around three hours back and forth. Take some water and food with you. Please not that from the sixth bridge to the fifth one the road is quite flat and there is not much to see. Highly recommended!"
This was so neat to hike around! You can literally watch as the canyon opens up. The hiking is beautiful and well maintained.
"Worth the hike but you need to start from the 6th bridge and work your way to the canyon then back down. It is quite a bit of uphill on the way up to the canyon from the 6th bridge, but the views are worth it.Did the hike with my son in a carrier backpack and it was definitely a challenge on the way up but worth the views.The way back down took half the time since we had seen everything already and were going downhill, which was good because when we got to the top we were pretty exhasusted."
"We took our rental car out and enjoyed the amazing dive through Canada's flora, fauna and geographical wonders that this country has to offer. Bears, moose, bighorn sheep, chip monks and more pocked there heads out of the wild to observe this creature we call 'curious tourist'. And at the end of the 50minute drive, you'll come to the wonderful Maligne Lake which is worth taking a ride on a lake cruise. Canada at its finest"
Great trip. Start from the 1st point which is located near the tea house on the far end of the parking. The Walk thru bridges 1 2 3 and back is for all ages... Beyond that is for more committed hikers. Lots of photos. Beautiful place.
"Nice spot for a hike for families with kids and show them the brute force of water. Hike can be as short as 30 minutes or last over 2 hours, your choice were you take the detour.."
"Maligne Canyon was very beautiful, the drive there was amazing the mountains are breath taking. I would wear or bring comfortable shoes as there is a hike if you would like to do one. I would highly recommend doing this when you go to Jasper"
"Had a great trip to the Canyon and to Jasper town as well. Canyon and Lake, as usual, are gorgeous. Not too crowded, bit of a gloomy day, but could see the mountains. Saw a grizzly cub beside road on the way home, kind of topped the trip off after seeing mountain sheep and elk"
"This was one of my favourite walks/hike. Best advice I can give anyone is to start at bridge 1 and work your way around. Then when it's time to hike up, it's all at once. For the people who started the opposite way...well let's say they were struggling as they went by. I don't recommend this for anyone having bad knee pain. It will be hard on them and fairly painful. If your not in shape you still can do this but on the way up stop and take some good breathes. Also take some water with you. Some of the most amazing views I've ever witnessed!"
"One of our favorite places we visited in Jasper National Park. HIKE & hike some more. Can be arduous, bring water, camera, hat. See all you can of this beautiful canyon. Nice visitor center but restrooms not always available."
"Beautiful hike from Fifth Bridge to the main parking lot. About 20 to 30 minute light hike one way. You have to go back to your initial location so start at fifth bridge as it is going to be easier on the way back. Easy enough for young kids, bring a camera !"
"Maligne canyon is a must while in the area. Easy walk, beautiful deep canyon, unusual stone formation, blue rushing water, bridges"
"Really enjoyed walking from one of the lower carparks up to the visitor centre at the top of maligne canyon. Great place for photos, definitely worth a visit while in Jasper."
About 10km from Central Jasper. The hike is quite easy. It takes about 20 mins or so to reach the 4th bridge. The fifth bridge is much further away and most visitors don't venture that far. Our view is that by the time the 4th bridge is crossed most of the dramatic scenes have been seen. Well worth the short journey from Jasper
"This 3 mile (round-trip), slightly challenging hike from the 5th Bridge to the 1st Bridge is not to be missed! We took the advice from other reviewers and parked at the 5th Bridge lot, and then took trail 7, always walking next to the canyon and river. On the return loop, we took trail 7f which is 25 minutes shorter. It's helpful to know that the distance between Bridge 5 and Bridge 4 is about 2/3 of the way from Bridge 5 to the Tea House which is located at Bridge 1."
This canyon is so gorgeous. There are several different walking paths through this area that require different amounts of time. We were short on time so only did the 1st canyon walk; there are 6 total and signage states that it takes about 3 hours to walk all areas of the canyon. It only took about 15 minutes for the 1st segment. I wish we had time for a longer visit at this spot. The portion we walked was paved. I'm not sure about the others. I felt the walk was an easy one but this will depend on fitness level.
This is definitely more interesting than Maligne Lake and not as far down the road . Recommended for a short stopover.
"Maligne Canyon in the Jasper National Park area,its close to the Town of the Jasper,if you like walking ,there is a place you can go.very interesting"
Lovely lake. Make sure you take a cruise around the lake. Runs hourly and takes about 45 minutes. Great restaurant for lunch. Nicest gift shop I have seen at a place like this.
"Nature, safe and well marked footpaths, stunning scenery, information boards, parking, yep it's got everything. We could have spent much more time there, as well as all of the aforementioned it's a wonderful place to relax and take in your surroundings."
This canyon is amazing! Beautiful beyond words! Be sure to make this a stop! Hard to believe but we enjoyed this more than Maligne Lake. Even with the clouds and drippy rain it was nature at its most gorgeous.
My advice is park at bridge #5 and go up the canyon. It has some decent elevation for the average person so why not use fresh legs going up and then walk downhill to loop back to the car.
"We were able to hike the Moose Loop there, and it was beautiful. We opted not to take the boat trip, but many were taking it. The drive up to the lake was very pretty."
"The Maligne Canyon trail took us from incredible vantage point to incredible vantage point. The canyon is narrow, deep and dramatic. The water has carved out really interesting shapes in the rock. Also, because it is an out-and-back trail, you can do as much or as little as you want. I highly recommend the hike but, if it is wet, be careful! There are many places where the trail goes over smooth, slippery rock."
"This is an interesting formation. The river is created from huge mountain springs. I hiked to it an trail 7f from 5th bridge parking area. The path is a rough, lumpy and pitted, but the view of the rapids and gorge are worth it."
we realy loved this great canyon. Before we visited Maligne lake and took the boat tour. We highly reccomend both sites for all visitors
It was a hazy greyish blue day but the waters were ethereal aquamarine and the fleeting sun playing on the mountains and the 'Island' were pure rockies romance. Boat trip well guided. Definitely worth it.
"Because this area of the Rockies  was covered by an ice sheet during the last ice age, Maligne Canyon is a unique formation; much different than the Rockies and other mountains in the US. This Karst Formation creates narrow limestone canyons and underground rivers. Photographs really can't do it justice; you have to see and feel it. You can see a part of the canyon on a 5 minute walk from the parking area, but we recommend the 40 minute loop trail to experience the whole canyon. The trail is paved, but can be steep in spots. The canyon is one of the first sights on the Maligne Lake Road and an easy drive from Jasper. Do not miss this one."
"I decided to stop and see this canyon after reading about it and boy am I glad I did. This is well worth a stop even if you don't have much time. At least visit the first and second bridges. There is a paved trail that follows the canyon. With six bridges that span across to get the best views. The first four bridges are an easy walk down canyon. The fifth and sixth are further down. I hiked about halfway past the fourth bridge. There is a teahouse, gift shop and pit toilets on site. There is also a dirt trail across the river if you want to take a different way back. The fourth bridge is easy to miss if you are not watching for it. It's off to the side and dead ends after crossing the river so you need to double back. This is one of my favorite spots in Jasper NP."
We visited this Canyon on a rainy day and were still able to enjoy the majestic view of the falls. There are trails for people with different levels of strength and interests with varying views of the water. The drive to the Canyon is also beautiful and we were able to spot a bear on the way.
"I had not done much reading on this canyon before the trip. So it was a suprise. Plan to walk to at least 3 of the bridges, allow at least 30 to 40 minutes for this stop. There is a tea house there, but we did not go in. The drive to Malign lake takes more time then you think. It's an all day trip."
Amazing views and definitely worth a trip. It's easy to get to from the parking lot. Nice shop and cafe.
"Lovely ride to the Lake from Jasper (passing Medicine Lake on the way). This was a great road for spotting black bears - we saw 4 in approx. 2 hours, just minding their own business on the side of the road.We opted not to do the boat trip at the lake but instead went for a walk."
"An amazing canyon, a must see for anyone visiting the Park. Get there early to avoid the crowds. You have a selection of both short and long hikes along the canyon."
"By starting at the Fifth or Sixth Bridge, you start the hike out of the crowds, traveling along the river uphill. Take the path that stays closest to the river at all times. It offers the best views, even though it involves a little more climbing up and down. Once you get to the Third Bridge, your jaw will drop at the views of the water roaring through the canyon. At the First Bridge, you'll find a cafeteria type restaurant that they call a Tea House but is nowhere near as quaint a picture as that name evokes. This was one of our top five hikes in Jasper area."
"Maligne Canyon has several trails attract tourists. However the road signs are very unclear, you can see many people standing in front of the signs discussing the map illusions. "" where are we now?"" Or ""which way return to main parking lot? ""....most of people cannot figure it out, then just took the same way back to where they started.We made a good guess and ran into a rocky bike trail. What a good experience!"
Great stop as you head towards Medicine and Maligne Lakes. Less crowded than some other stops which makes it enjoyable. The canyon is very narrow in some spots-squirrels easily jump back and forth across the canyon.
"This is the best place to go at Jasper! We spent a whole day - a quick tour of the canyon, amazing; the mysterious medicine lake, with cure power; the be-witched maligne lake, just beautiful; great view ascending bald hill, totally suitable for family, with the resident mascot at the summit waiting; the best is the meeting with a black bear and her cub on the way, super nice!"
This is certainly one of the top 3 canyons and lakes we visited. So recommendable to not skip it in the large offering in the banff-jasper regio.
This hike is a good start to the jasper park. It has multiple hikes that are easy to follow. The further you go the harder the walk back as you start at the top. Make sure your knees are ready for steps. It offers great views of the winding river that has eaten away at the canyon.
"The walk up from bridge 5 shows the canyon off better. You start with a wide river and then as you climb up the path by the Canyon you see why the river flow reduces (because most of the water runs via underground limestone tunnels that emerge part way down the canyon). At the top, the river is more of a small stream. Plus this way you can stop for coffee at the top and walk back via the elevated path, which gives great views of the surrounding mountains."
"My husband and I did a day trip from Jasper to Maligne Canyon, Medicine Lake and Maligne Lake. It was raining at Maligne Canyon but still an interesting and impressive place to visit. Good walking tracks and lovely scenery."
"We visited this area on a cooler misty morning and did the entire trail round trip. The views are spectacular but trails can be steep, slippery and uneven in many places. We traveled from Bridge thirteen to Bridge on on the 7Trail go the top. We returned on the 7f trail. The 7F trail is much smoother and shorter by .5km. The return trip is primarily downhill, so start from higher number parking areas to lower number parking area first uphill. The return is much faster and easier on the return trip when you are tired. We r in our mid fifties and this entire trip was daunting but doable. Recommendations: start at parking bridge area #5 and go to top at #1 on 7 trail. Return then going down hill using trail 7F."
"We arrived in the area at about 9am hoping to see some wildlife. It wasn't particularly busy and we were able to drive along the road slowly without causing any tailbacks. We didn't see any bears but they were in the area. We did see deer, moose and a few other wild animals. The views were fantastic and even though it started to rain a bit, we still had a nice relaxing drive."
Do the hike from bridge one to bridge six early in the morning around seven am before the crowds move in. Lots of excellent photo opportunities and peace and quiet. From bridge no. six it takes only 5-10 minutes to walk to the Athabasca river. There is also a nice trail along the river. Lots of beautiful wildflowers in June.
"In a day of rain we had a beautiful hike along the Maligne Canyon. There are several bridges and you can organize a shorter or longer hike whatever you prefer. We walked until the fifth bridge and went back then the same way crossing to the other side on the third bridge. We went quite slowly and stopped a lot to take pictures, it took us around 2 hours to come back to the parking."
Great opportunity for some nice pics. Easy walking around. Clear trails and lots of parking. Gift store is located there also.
"Maligne Canyon is easily accessible from the Maligne Lake Road. The trail around the canyon is free. If you would like, you can take a tour deeper into the canyon. This is especially nice in winter when you can do the ice walk."
"This was way more impressive than I thought. There are trails going up and down the canyon allowing a good view of the canyon and the water. This can be accessed from the upper or lower parking lots. Unless you have someone shuttle you, some walking uphill will be required."
"The upper part of the canyon is very growded, go all the way to the bottom to enjoy the full experience! The river offers amazing photos and a easy hike if you ignore the masses at the start. Its doable with kids as well and there are interesting signs explaining the creation and the flora/fauna of the canyon."
Short or longer hike to view the canyon and water. Either way there is beautiful scenery for all. Be careful on the trails as some areas can be slippery.
"Impressive canyon on the route to Medicine and Maligne lakes. As it is only 10 k out of Jasper one can even make it a quick trip out of town, e.g. later in the afternoon when most tourists have gone. Well worth the effort."
New this season at the Maligne Canyon ; Tapas offered Fri-Sun - seating from 5 to 7. Outstanding selection of Tapas . We ordered the trio of dips and lamb Popsicles - best lamb I've had in years. Melt in your mouth tender. Large selection of dips to choose from. Portions are generous.
We walked to the canyon in the rain. It was not difficult but took us about 30 minutes to get there (1 hour round trip). We chose the longer walk and to our delight it just kept getting better!It was absolutely breathe taking. I can't recommend it more highly.
You can go for a short hike or a very long challenging hike. Great photo ops of the gorge! A must to see when in the area. We stopped in tea house for tea and it was surprisingly uncrowded.
Many viewpoints of the canyon made this an enjoyable hike. The trail was easy to follow (bc it was along a fence). Each bridge was different and made for the feeling that each crossing was unique. The trail was peopled but at 9 in the morning the parking lot was still rather empty.
"Another hidden gem from the Canadian Rockies
This canyon is easy to get to by bike or car and is amazing to be around as you can hear the water crashing below"
Nice hike. All levels of ability. Beautiful views were non stop. Lots of tourists but oh well - it's beautiful! And it's free which is crazy considering how much it sit have cost to build all of the walkways throughout this place. Definitely worth visiting if you like to walk
One of the few places that was not over crowded by bus loads of people. Wonderful views of a slot canyon and falls. Great interpretive information that explains it all. Easy 20 minute walk to see the majority of the canyon.
"We started at bridge 6 and climbed up to bridge 1, rested at the tea house atop, and then hiked down to our car. This was definitely a must-see hike, with the falls getting more and more impressive with each bridge we passed (it would be both anti-climactic and more exausting to start from the top)! Gorgeous trail, falls, and gorges are visible all along this trail!"
An interesting and picturesque walk along a canyon. Downhill grade is reasonable on tracks that in the main are well maintained. Informative interpretative signs along the path explain what has happened. Plenty of photo opportunities. Restrooms at bridge 1 and 5. Suitable for most walker levels.
"We took our four young kids on a hike through Maligne Canyon. The views are breathtaking. If you love nature, stop here. You can do a short hike or a long hike depending on the path you take."
Visted here on a rainy day . Overwhelming really the power of the water . Well worth a visit and so glad we came . The water has cut a huge deep canyon only about 10ft wide and sometimes only 3ft at the top . Its definitely a must do visit from Jasper and is only a 20 min drive from town
"We stopped at Maligne Canyon on our way back from Maligne Lake. Despite the light rain, we easily hiked all the way to the fourth bridge. The canyon is very deep in some areas, which is quite fascinating. Due to the rain, the trails were muddy in certain areas, so wear proper footwear depending on the weather. And while the trail is nice, easy and downhill going out, it's tougher on the way back as it's mostly uphill. Definitely worth visiting while in Jasper! Good exercise for all!"
"Deep, beautiful canyons with voluminous rushing water! All the Canadian parks we've visited are so well maintained, yet true to nature. These canyons are must sees! Stop at the bridges and take short walks. You won't be disappointed!AND...we saw about six black bears on the drive to and past the canyons. We saw people out of their cars taking pictures, so we stopped and walked over. Once I saw how close the bear was to the road, we immediately ran to the car. Another bear that no one saw walked across the road behind them! Guess the others don't realize how dangerous that was!! Hmmm. We drove further to Maligne Lake and on the way back saw four other bears in different locations. All were 10 feet from the road, turning over rocks and limbs looking for food. We stayed in our car but were able to slowly move down the road with them watching them in their natural habitat and taking lots of pictures. Our grandsons had a lesson they'll never forget. Truly impressive!"
"This stop is about ten minutes from Jasper and absolutely worth the stop. Incredible view of falls,and the power of moving waterand erosion. It was a little rainy the day we stopped but this added to the misty forest feel.There are several hikes/walks appropriate to all levels. But be aware there are quite a few stairs and it can be a little slippery. I would definitely stop again."
"Amazing how water can cut cut so deep into rock. Apart from the very narrow part at the top, if you do not want to walk the whole way, you can drive to the lower bridges and get great views where the canyon widens out. On the upper section the rock has become slick, so take your time, it is very easy to slip."
You can go to the lake and walk around easily. Then there are several walks around the canyon for different abilities - we did an easy one and our friends the harder one and we met back up at the top.
"The guides tell you there are 6 bridges, which there are but only 4 in the canyon itself, the last 2 fall lower down the valley where the river is much wider.We walked to bridge 5, bridge 4 is probably the best bet as it cover the ""canyon"" itself. If you do go to bridge 5 you can walk back along the ridge rather than follow the river, which is a much easier walk.The river an canyon itself are impressive, especially seeing the underground rivers emptying into the Malign river, not something I'd seen before."
"A paved path and bridge allow visitors to witness the power of moving water up close. Information panels describe the natural processes at work and point out the fossils to be spotted along the way. There are several stairways to access the canyon at various levels, so those less mobile may not be able to see the more dramatic features. There is a large parking lot, but note that this location is frequented by tour buses and you may be joining crowds. Even so, the sights are worth pursuing."
The canyon is quite long and descends through a sequence of falls and elevation changes. A trail with bridges provide great vistas along the way. It is a stunning display of water and rock in a very large and deep gorge. We were pretty tired from a long hike at Maligne Lake when we came to Maligne Canyon for lunch. We found ourselves entranced by the power and beauty of rushing water and rock formations.
"After a drive out to Maligne Lake, we decided to stop in at the Canyon on the way back to the campsite. It was just off the road and there is some walking but the canyon was just wonderful. It is something you won't want to miss. There are lots of stairs so make sure you can handle them."
"I stopped here today on my way to Maligne Lake. The big poster on display in the parking lot is really helpful… It let you decide how strenuous and long of a hike you're wanting to do.Given that it was raining quite steadily, I opted for the shorter route and still had good views of the canyon and the water rushing through it.The short wrote really doesn't take much time so I would say it is worth a stop."
"We hiked all the way down to the bottom, which meant far fewer people and really gorgeous scenery. The trail follows the water, which gives you gorgeous views the whole way. So many scenic spots."
We stopped here while on our way back from Maligne Lake and we're glad that we did. Beautiful place (which Jasper has no dearth of). Requires a short walk but well worth it!
"Maligne Canyon is a deep canyon through which the Maligne River runs down river from Maligne Lake. It is defined by a tea house at the start just off of Maligne Lake Road and is crossed by six walking bridges. The parking lot is a short distance from bridge #2 and a person can access bridge #1 from the tea house or by walking up river from bridge #2. The deepest part of the canyon is between bridges #2 and #4. During this distance the river is quite small and far below between tall canyon walls. It is easy to walk down hill from bridge #2, past #3 and #4. By this time the trail is close to the same level as the river and other streams entering the river do so in lovely waterfalls. Also along this stretch below #4 the rapids are dramatic and underground channels from Medicine Lake enter the river. The river's volume has greatly increased by now from all this additional water. From this point you can walk all the way to bridges #5 and #6 but it is quite a ways and your car will end up far from where you are and remember your return trip is uphill. A better option is to enjoy the scenes a short distance below bridge #4 then return to your car and drive back Maligne Lake Road toward Jasper town site. Watch for the signs directing you to Bridge #5 and another to Bridge #6. They are easily accessible. The canyon is a gem to enjoy."
"Stopped here on our way to Maligne Lake. It was quite awe inspiring. You just cannot imagine unless you actually see it for yourself, how water can do so much damage to rock. Well worth the stop over."
When you go to maligne canyon in the winter and early spring you can walk in the bottom of the canyon in all the ice caves. So spectacular you want to make this a must do on your list. I recommend to use trekking poles and have crampons on your winter boats.
"Limited view from car park, requires a walk along the trail to see it at its best, no easy access for disabked or for those with limited walking ability."
Short hike on the 6th bridge but beautiful. Must see if in jasper. Great spot if you don't have too much time.
"Geographically interesting place with beautiful views of the canyon and varying distance hikes. We went down till the 5th bridge from the parking lot. The trail is well marked and has some interesting geological information on boards along the path. We didn't go all the way to 6th bridge in the interest of time. The info centre is nice and they have a gift shop there as well. But as far as canyon hikes go, I personally liked the Johnson Canton hike in Banff."
"On your way to or from Maligne Lake, be sure to stop at the Maligne Canyon viewing area. There are three different hiking trails of varying length, but you can easily do the shortest in 30 minutes or less. It provides some stunning views of this glacially river carved canyon with spectacular waterfalls. It is a paved path, making it easy to navigate for all ages and mobility levels. There are informative signs along the way that are educational yet fun. Take the time to learn about the area on this fun and easy hike around a fascinating canyon."
"One of the highlights of our trip to the Rockies. It's well worth making the effort, come rain or shine, to take this trail. The canyon is spectacular and varied."
We hiked this trail from bridge 5 and enjoyed the easy walk. We stopped may times to take pictures because it was beautiful! The canyon itself is impressing although very crowded because of its easy access by car or bus...
"We went early, around 9 am on a weekday, and the tour buses had already pulled up into the parking lot. Hordes of people jammed the trails, all seemingly carrying selfie-sticks, until about Bridge 3. After that, the trail opens up considerably. I just wasn't all that impressed with the canyon. It was interesting, but it took us about 2.5 hours total to hike to Bridge 5 and back and I felt like it just wasn't the best use of our time. It was hard to get any photos without someone's selfie stick getting in the way. If I had to do it over again, I would go as late in the day as possible and only hike Bridges 1 through 3. These were the most interesting and the distance between 3 and 5 is too much for what you see."
"Well worth the distance to travel to visit. Awesome and beautiful. We didn't see any bears but we did see Moose,deer, goats? and squirrels"
"Go with the flow of the water and see spectacular beauty. As were walking, we were surprised to see two bears walk out of the woods. Our tour guide had us slowly walked away and he clapped and they were gone. It just added to our experince, haha"
"We did a guided tour of the canyon not really knowing what to expect, but it was really very good. Sometimes the guide can make these things better, and our guide was fantastic, so much knowledge, The scenery was great, but some of the less able people in our group should not have done it or at least dressed for the hike, high heels are not appropriate ( idiots ). Highly recommend this little hike anytime."
Easy access to the trail. There are 6 bridges that cross the canyon. You can access the first 3 easily from the main parking area. 4th bridge is a bit of a hike but worth it. You can access the 5th and 6th bridges by following the trail or via separate parking areas. Loved every minute of the trail. Only con is that it's on the tour bus circuit and be prepared to be swarmed by rude people at times. Easy to escape them as they typically just did the main bridge and tea house.
"Wear hiking shoes! For the best experience, plan to walk on the path along the canyon, and enjoy the lookout bridges along the way. In May, it was a little muddy and there were a lot of ups and downs."
Did this June 2016It was great view were superb We didn't do all the bridges on the walk I would recommend the first four as after that the views are nice but not worth the walkWe ended up driving to themNeed good shoes Enough said
A easy quick trip in Jasper to see a powerful waterfall and nature doing what it was designed to do.
4 OF 6 bridges are on foot only. 5th and 6th bridges can be reach by driving. A very good view to see the waterfalls and river...
"Maligne Canyon was nice but not as great as Johnston Canyon. In maligne Canyon you are always walking next to the canyon, which is nice but makes it less impressive as Johnston Canyon where you hike inside the canyon itself."
Very nice short walk over bridges to see the canyon and water fall. An easy walk for families. We walked to bridge 4 and back in under an hour
"I knew when we went to Alberta for vacation that I wanted to drive up to Jasper solely to hike Maligne Canyon and visit Maligne Lake. I was NOT disappointed. I'm going to try to keep this review concise, but there really is so much to talk about. You have a few options when you visit this area. OPTION 1 is to park at 1st Bridge. If you do this you will basically be at the visitors center/restaurant, top of the falls, top of the canyon. It's all downhill from there... literally. If you walk from 1st Bridge to 2nd Bridge etc. you will be walking consistently downhill, down stairs, and semi- steep areas (nothing most people can't do). If you have bad knees, or anything that prevents you from doing stairs or climbing, I suggest just seeing 1st Bridge. OPTION 2- You can also drive to each bridge, park your car, and walk to the bridge which will give you nice views without having to walk between them. There will still be some walking, but it will be minimal. OPTION 3, and the option I highly HIGHLY recommend if you can stomach the 4 mile hike uphill, is to park at 6th Bridge and hike up. The views are remarkable, the scenery is stunning, I sappily cried at one point because it was so beautiful (DORK! lol), but it's one of the most memorable things I've done. The maps are confusing as hell, but if you just stick on the path that is in front of you that is going uphill you won't get lost. I'm 300 lbs and I did the 8 mile total hike. Of course, I do exercise and have strong legs, I also run, so this was fine for me, and may not be the case for others. OPTION 4- Park at 6th Bridge and hike to 5th Bridge and back. Then drive to 1st Bridge if you want to see that. The hike from 6th to 5th Bridge is absolutely one of the best hikes I've ever been on. It's BEAUTIFUL. It's a longish hike (maybe a mile there so 2 miles total??) but it's worth it. The huge boulders and blue water, trickling streams, etc make this a memorable one. Sorry for the insanely long review, but this is one of the best things I've ever done so I had to share. Happy Adventuring!"
This is worth the short drive and exercise. it's a great area and incredible rock formations. Easy for the whole family. Do the long way as it is worth it. Good for the heart! And soul.
Stopped off here on way back from Maligne Lake and really enjoyed a walk to the 4th bridge - a 1 hour round trip taking in lovely views - before ending up at nice cafe with balcony overlooking canyon.
"Visited early evening so it was not too busy. Walked bridges 1-3, which we were told were the most spectacular. This advice was right. For a free atteaction, it is a 'must' visit. Be careful not to miss bridge one. It is the best."
"There are car parks at every stage of this walk, 6th bridge, 5th bridge and 1st bridge at the top. You either start by walking up hill from 5th or 6th bridge to the head of the canyon 1st bridge or you do it the other way round. There are lovely views of the canyon all the way along, but although the trail is fenced in many places there are some that are not and it is can be hazardous. This is a very popular walk so I would recommend very first thing in the morning before the hoards arrive. Worth the trek"
"We drove up to the car park by the Tea House and then tried to follow the maps. We found them very confusing for some reason. Basically start at the top and just keep walking down the canyon - it's amazing even in the rain. We got down to bridge no 4, but on the drive back to Jasper we called in at no 5 and spotted a herd of Elk on the way, and then went down to where the Maligne joins the Athabasca river. In fine weather this would be a lovely hike and would love to do it some time. To be recommended."
"Beautiful views of this very steep, narrow gorge. Changing views as you move from bridge to bridge. Only went from bridge 2 to bridge one and was still worthwhile. A lot of steps, so beware your need to walk back up."
This canyon and falls is quite exceptional. It is something I have never seen anywhere else and if you are in the area and do not visit you are certainly missing something very special.
"Take the time to do this while in Jasper, its sensational. We were advised by a local to start from bridge 5 and not bother about bridge 6, this was good advice."
"We heard about the canyon and hikes from the visitor center so after driving to Maligne Lake and doing a hike, we stopped at the canyon. What an amazing place -- we didn't make it all the way to the bottom of the canyon but the trip to the third bridge and back was wonderful. Such a wonder"
"Yes, it really is. Don't miss this, so lovely, pretty walks and fantastic views, well worth the visit. Take care with little ones."
"We only managed to do three of the bridges, because it's a fairly strenuous walk. But we felt it was well worth the effort."
You truly feel you are in Gods country. We visited in October but I've been to Jasper in the summer as well. Worth the visit. Don't forget your camera!
These waterfall canyons are spectacular! And Maligne Canyon is one of the best. An easy walk with rewarding views.
Lovely and interesting place to visit. Can be slippy so beware and wear good solid shoes. Lots of windlife and good photo opportunities.
"The river in places goes underground to appear again further along. There are parking lots at various places, so you can choose several lengths of walks.. You need to have 2 cars to do that so that a car can be left at the end of your walk, and have a car to take you back to where you want to start., otherwise you have to turn around and walk back to your starting place."
"This place is a must see while in Jasper . We all enjoyed it . Kids are ages 13,11,11. We only did the short trail because we were played out from a hike before hand ."
Just off the road to Maligne Lake this canyon is well worth stopping at. Astounding geology and several bridges over the river to allow you to get close to the water. Plus its free!!!
Maligne (pronounced MALEEN) canyon was beautiful. Closing your eyes and listening to the sound of the rushing water is amazing. The water is so clear everywhere throughout Alberta it is just mind boggling. It was a nice easy walk and at the very beginning we saw a bear quite close to the area.
"I loooove the outdoors. I'd recommend going all the way down the canyon because at the top is where all the tourists stop. Near the bottom, there are virtually no people and you can get some good photos in the canyon without people in the back."
"I will preface this review with the fact that we had a long leg burning hike the day before, so the kids were a bit sore and cranky.... We started from the 6th bridge and hiked through the forest and along the river up to the 5th bridge. While it was enjoyable, and you could pop down to the river at different points for some pictures of the water, if you want the best bang for your effort you could skip the 6th bridge and go to the 5th bridge. We found the most interesting part of the hike was from the 5th bridge and on for about 30 min. Keep looking all around you, some of the best parts of this trail were the views of pyramid mountain, with the river in the foreground! Take the lower trail closest to the water to go up to the canyon, it is the most scenic. You can return on that upper more direct trail, which will be all downhill on the way back. The lower trail along the water has various ups and downs as it goes along the river. There is a nice area to stop along the roaring river on the rocks and take a break, or have a little snack. It's mostly all uphill for the next 25 min. The canyon itself is deep, but you can barely see the water in parts. So for that reason we were a little unimpressed, I have seen better canyons, but that is just my opinion. But from 5th bridge and around that area we really enjoyed it. Once at the top, we did take the slightly higher trail back, which was virtually all downhill/ flat. It avoided the up and downs along the river when the legs were a bit tired."
Maligne Canyon is a short drive or a nice hike from the town of Jasper. Start at the visitor centre at the canyon and make your way down to all the different bridges and stop to admire the beauty of this canyon from different levels! This is a great attraction to visit while in Jasper. Do not miss it!
One of our favorites. I suggest starting from the bottom of the canyon at 6th bridge and hiking up. You avoid the crowds and it's easier to go downhill when tired. Cute place at the top for coffee and a snack
"Choose your parking area for a short hike, park near bridge 2 or 5 for an approx. 1.4 miles roundtrip, or park at bridge 6, (the first one you come to), to extend your hike to about 4.5 miles rountrip, the added distance through woods along the Maligne River on a flat trail. Probably allow 2-3 hours depending on choices. A teahouse is located at Bridge 2 parking area. After your hike, drive east, (away from main Jasper highway) about 15 km to the magnificent Medicine Lake, whose surface clearly mirrors the adjacent mountains."
"This is a truly awe inspiring site. A beautiful canyon that offers so much variety. It would be so easy to spend several hour wondering around the canyon. The gift shop is interesting and a bit deluded. There were some articles with a price tag of between $500,000 and $1,000,000. You must be joking."
Saw 5 bears in two days both on the way and return from maligne lake. The canyon is a little walk from the car park and an uphill climb on return. Drive to the lower bridge it is still worth a trip.
"Only a few miles outside of Jasper. It was drizzling when we were there, but still, we enjoyed the walk. From many parts of the trail you can see how the water carved through the rock to form the canyon. Is beautiful. There is a big parking lot, so easy to access. And a nice gift shop. We did not know the area of Maliange Canyon would be so developed; nice wheel-char friendly paths. We were in the area because we understood the 28 mile drive to Maligne Lake is known to be a good place to see wildlife in the mornings or evenings."
My husband (who is not the world's most enthusiastic hiker) and I loved this hike. The views are spectacular. Highly recommend!
"This is an easy walk, but an amazing place to enjoy. Definitely a must place to go if you are in the area."
"We first visited Maligne Canyon (pronounced Ma lean) on an organised day tour of the canyon, Maligne River & Maligne Lake boat cruise, which was very good. We enjoyed the canyon so much that we decided to go back the following day so see the canyon in the afternoon light rather than the morning light and take an extended walk along the canyon that the earlier tour didn't have time for. The sun through the morning mist probably provided the best photos.We have visited a number of amazing limestone canyons to date in the Canadian Rockies but this one so far takes the cake. Its form, depth and narrowness plus the sheer beauty of the area was amazing. Most tours only take in the first couple of bridges but I would highly recommend the extended walk from the visitor centre to the fifth bridge where the canyon opens out to valley & a wide river. It takes a couple of hours but is not strenuous although is downhill on the way out and uphill on the way back. You could reverse this by parking at the 5th bridge & walking uphill out & downhill back. There are drop toilets at both the upper and lower carparks.We didn't extend our walk to the 6th bridge but I suspect the vistas may be much the same as around the 5th bridge, out of the true gorge.I understand there are organised ice walks on the river bed through the canyon in winter for the brave!"
Don't miss this !! An easy hike for all ages. Elderly and those carrying infants might want to walk just a couple of bridges and not all 6. If they go 30 minutes down the canyon they could see many sights well worth it and then walk the additional 30 minutes back to the free parking lot. I would prefer this stop versus lake Maligne if time and mileage are in question. This is one of nature's truly awesome sights.
"We stopped here as part of a tour to Maligne Lake so it was only a brief visit but from what we saw of it, it looked somewhere that's worth spending a bit more time in to do some walks etc, which we would have done if we weren't restricted on time. Definitely worth a visit whilst in Jasper."
"Either starting at bridge 1 and going to bridge 6 or just doing part of the 6 bridges trail, every step gets you new wonderful view. Amazing."
Visit this water-carved slot canyon and walk the downhill trail along the top with 6 bridges for a long hike crossing over and back. Great views of the intricately carved rock or go only to the 2rd or 3rd bridge and still see more than enough. Retrace your steps uphill to the gift shop and cafe. Stop to view the expensive but beautiful carved artwork and have a drink or a snack on the deck or inside.
"There are several places to start and you can go both directions. There are six bridges and many hike from bridge six to one (all uphill) because the canyon becomes more and more spectacular as you go. Access points are at bridge 1,2,5,6. My DH and DS hiked the opposite way from bridge one (trail right next to restaurant (not 2 at the far end of the parking lot -you will miss a lot) to bridge five. I hiked with them from bridge 1 to 4 and returned to bridge 1 (uphill) to get the car and drive back down to bridge 5 to pick them up. We met at exactly the same time because the hike from 4 to 5 is long. At a bare minimum hike from bridge 1 to 3 and back. 1 to 4 if you can take the uphill."
We visited Maligne Canyon while on a tour from Jasper. As with these things time is limited but we did the short walk to the second bridge. Waterfalls were stunning. Later we went onto Maligne Lake and out to Spirit Island. The weather was gorgeous which made the boat ride really good. A beautiful place.
Located about 20 minute drive from Jasper. Great rock formation and waterfalls. The whole canyon walk (6th bridge) takes about 2 hours. You can walk as far or as short as you like. We walked to the 4th bridge. Allow about 1-2 hours to do the 4th bridge and take in the scenery.
"If you love to see the power of water and what it can achieve, visit the canyon. Only a small slit canyon, but awesome to view. If you are unfit, its all down hill then up, so maybe the first or second bridge is your limit. Didnt feel there was much more to see the further you go on."
Beautiful & serene the waters are a beautiful teal - green but do clean & clear. See if you can take a canoe trip. Pack a lunch & enjoy your surroundings!!
"So beautiful! Be sure to walk down to the bridge from the parking lot. Bridges 1 and 2 are easy to get to. The waterfalls are spectacular! Walking further down into the canyon is great and well worth the effort of the relatively steep walk back up. Not too tough though. Our 4yo did it, even if a little slowly."
"So much beauty in one hike. Canyons & waterfalls abound. Go early for a better experience, since this place is popular. May do Bridge 2-3 only if pressed for time, but worth doing Bridge 1-6. Varying terrains,so wear good shoes with good grips, can be slippery after the rain"
Walk away from the crowds to a peaceful setting. Can be slippery when wet but well worth the small effort.
"allow about two and a half hours for this lovely place, the walk to the fifth bridge is easy, when you get to the fifth bridge you will see a sign on the right indicating a trail for horses, take this trail if you want an easier walk back to base as the walk back up the canyon is quite difficult. if you continue to the sixth bridge you will have to return the same way. my previous review on this was mistakingly put on Mt edith cavell"
"I was initially surprised by how deeply the canyon carved down into the earth, especially at bridges 1 and 2, where I was little intimidated by the height. The canyon shallows a little more by bridge 3, which is as far as we hiked before turning around, but the trail extends out to 6 bridges. Overall, the pathway is well paved, but there are a lot of stairs that start out primarily going down, so if you come back the same way there is a lot of stairs to climb. However, the views of the river carving through the canyon are so beautiful."
"Hiked the 6 bridges route an did some climbing as well along the way - u need to do this for a bit of a challenge! Other wise great walk, good for kids etc"
This stop was suggested to us as a last minute if you have time kind of stop. We were so glad we stopped! There are so many beautiful places to see in the Rockies and this is one of them. It was a short hike to see the Canyon but worth the walk ( maybe 10 minutes in)
The Maligne Canyon is breathtaking. The way the water travels and has cut through the canyon is unbelievable. It is just one more of the beautiful water ways that Canada has to offer.
"Maligne Canyon is an unique experience as u watch the turns and falls of the the Maligne river over the centuries. The trail takes you through six ""bridges"" and you can choose to make the hike as long or short as you feel comfortable. Some of the viewpoints are truly scenic and leave you wondering how this place must have looked in the past. Enjoyable experience!"
The canyon is an interesting geological feature which enables those visiting to see the underground water system from the surface. The walk is well signed and shows different asoects of what is being seen. Inparts the track is uneven and steep.
"A nicely done trail with great education information and lovely views. Despite some ""steepness"" the path is well done, easy to walk and provides great views. We walked up and back from the Sixth bridge and it was a great trip!"
Well worth a walk down the canyons with good photo opportunities. Only criticism is that the maps provides on route for the round trip walking are rubbish.
The maligne canyon is walkable and gives a good insight into canyons. The walk was easy and safe. The sound of the fall of the waters in the canyons was something I just loved. The place was filled with greenery and as beautiful as the lake where it fell to! Must see in jasper!
"A very enjoyable visit, the only minor grumble is that trail maps are not available from the centre, so the elaborately numbered trails are wasted because you have no idea where they go, although there are a few maps on the trails themselves. But it's very beautiful and well worth visiting here."
"We started out early and were at 5th bridge before crowds. We walked leisurely so as to,see all the different parts of the canyon. All the underground rivers and streams the waterfalls some large some very small. Water lazy and quiet then rushing over rocks and as we reached the top the canyon narrows dramatically so that the bottom is impossible to see . Similar to Marble Canyon at Kootenay NP but even more dramatic and much longer. An exhilarating walk up and back as recommended in many of the guides. In between a nice morning tea in the lovely restaurant at the top. Allow 2-3 hrs return from 5th bridge."
"The Maligne Canyon area is one of the best places to spend some time in the Jasper area. The canyon trail has some spectacular views of waterfalls and the powerful river, and is suitable for most people (we're seniors and had no problem hiking the entire trail). There are several parking areas where you can access the trail."
"Stunning, we didn't want to leave. The canyon is so deep and noisy with the rushing water. Awesome, we took so many photos."
"We really enjoyed checking out this spot. We parked at the 6th bridge and walked the 4 km or so to the head of the canyon. There are beautiful water springs between the 5th and 6th bridges and there is a high trail from the 5th bridge that walks through some beautiful wildflowers. If you are a geocacher there is a great, informative earth cache here too."
This canyon offers incredible views and photos. Just beyond bridge 4 is an absolutely stunning view. It is not necessary to go on to bridges 5 and 6.
Nice I suppose but I wasn't impressed. It's a long narrow canyon. I guess I just don't appreciate it. You can walk around both sides on a nice day. Scenic.
Extremely deep gorge. Fascinating geology. A short path takes you over very steep falls as you see how the river has carved away the rock walls. Worth it for everyone. Do not miss this .
"Took this trip from FAIRMONT Jasper Lodge, including wildlife tour. Boat ride to Spirit Island was beautiful - water color was unbelievable. On the wildlife tour, we spotted bear, elk, pika rabbit and osprey - excellent guide (Marie). Tour include Maligne Canyon which is also impressive."
This Canyon is the most beautiful that we have seen in Canada BC and Alberta. Very beautiful trails and nice waterfalls and streams of water. Very refreshing when you walk a long trail. We have cooled our hands and faces a little bit. Super clean area. Lots of chipmunks! Nice to be there for a walk a few hours.
"If your driving past, you need to hop out and have a look. The power of the water is amazing and the colour of the water never gets old to look at."
Well worth the short drive from Jasper. Very beautiful falls and nice walking trails with information boards. The only disappointment was that I couldn't find the real fossils but maybe I read the sign wrong.
Incredible to see the impact of glacial meltwater over millions of years. Very dramatic and well worth a visit.
"This is a great short stop. Be sure to take the time to go around the entire loop. The rushing water in the canyon is beautiful and the sound is awesome. I was not expecting anything this beautiful and I'm glad I went down to the bridge, otherwise I would have missed a wonderful scenic spot."
"Only a small sign directs you to the this treasure hidden a short distance from Jasper.Treat yourself to an early start( before dawn) and if you are lucky as we were see deer, Moose, Black bear and elk on the way. The Canyon is so narrow and the water cuts through 50 m below, it is a true spectacle.If you have time go to Medicine lake and watch the Bald Eagle on her nest so much the better.Black bears 3 m from the car, foraging with little regard to the invasive species looking on.is a memorable experience."
Great trip. Good walks for all different levels of fitness. Lots of great photo opportunities and stunning scenery. Check out the art and jade carvings in the tea house...
...unexpected...great find..canyon waters were a low since this was the early summer dates..watch out for young school groups..
Great outdoor experience - not as big as Athabasca or Johnson but still very worthy to take the time to see.
After a rainy afternoon the sun came out in the early evening and we headed for Maligne Canyon. What a great decision! Not only was the scenery amazing but we found ourselves stopping constantly to view the wildlife. We saw 8 bears (admittedly we might have counted the 3 we saw on the way up twice) and a mother moose with her baby. The lake was good two with Canadian geese and a loon.
"We came here expecting a lot more after reading reviews and information. Whilst the canyon is quite spectacular at times, you were not able to see as much as we hoped and were too far removed from the canyon at times to really appreciate it. I personally preferred Johnson Canyon along the Bow Valley Parkway as you are literally walking inside the canyon at times. It is still worth a visit, but compared to the other sites along Maligne Road, this is not the best. We did get to see Black Swifts though which was quite exciting."
"No matter where you go in Jasper the views are beautiful, but this was incredible. We loved it and will bring the family next time!!"
"Highly recommend taking the ""long"" route on the map, following the river from Bridge 6 to Bridge 5, and then taking the high ground on the way back. Lots of scenery diversity that way! Really good views of the cliffs and not too crowded in the morning. Great!"
"Great place, just a little to much crowd. Spectaculary views, just as in the brochures. It is a must visit and you can't miss in on your way to Maligne lake."
"Great way to spend part of your day.Try to walk the whole trail.Top section is awesome and trail is great the whole length.If parking at the top, be prepared for the walk back up.Much of the trail is paved making walking for some easier.This is a must when visiting the area."
This canyon is well worth a visit...but I'd encourage you to go early (on your way TO Maligne Lake - not after you do the boat trip). It's a very pleasant walk to the falls but it gets packed by midday and would not be enjoyable. Do yourself a favor and get up early so you can avoid the crowds.
"If you are in Jasper just go down the highway a bit to get to this site. There are many paths, not suitable for anything with wheels, but lots of waterfalls and canyon views along the way. Lots of parking. The maps are confusing, just go, you'll get back! There are tons of photo spots, and 6 bridges over the rushing water. We took dogs, but it's narrow in spots and in hindsight we would have been better without them."
Another place we knew we needed to stop at based on the other reviews I had read. It did not disappoint. You can do the easy walk up or walk down to the bottom of the canyon and hike back up. We did both and it was great fun and beautiful. Worth the stop - a must see.
Beautiful canyon surrounded by endless pine trees in Jasper National Park. We were fortunate enough to see three black bears in the park as we drove through.
Maligne lake and canyon are not the sights to miss. The color of the water is breathtaking. This is where we aw the most of our wildlife including a black bear wandering down the side of the road. We stopped for mountain sheep standing in the middle of the road. It was well worth the drive.
"Just wow! You need to see this wonderful natural canyon. There are ""wow"" views round every bend. Absolutely and utterly beautiful."
"My eyes couldn't take all the majesty in at once. The depth of the canyon, the rushing water and the magnificent rapids. I took an easy walk around the canyon and got some great pictures of the wildlife. please take time to visit this area, you will not be disappointed."
"Great hikes for all ages. Well maintained pathways allows you to see multiple falls and canyons, we did the short loop but it looks like you could spend a very nice day walking the trails."
"This place was beautiful! We hiked from like Bridge 2 to Bridge 5, where the lodge is, and the whole trail was just beautiful scenery after beautiful scenery. I just hope my photos do this place justice. Due to the water spray as it continues its trip downstream, the landscape is full of lots of green moss, ferns, plants, and trees. It looks like a scene from Snow White or something, it seemed unreal at times. Beautiful place."
"There are several trails down through these canyons and you can take the easy one which takes about 20 minutes and is relatively easy. We went further down (which of course means you have to come up again!) but it was worth it as the waterfalls that rush through here are spectacular. If you take it easy you should be too out of breath and there are plenty of places to stop on the way up. At the top there is a restaurant which serves various things like sandwiches, soups etc and a great gift shop, oh also they have toilets here too, don't use the chemical ones in the parking lot."
"Start at the fifth bridge and walk the lower trail 7 along the river, which offers you the best views of the rushing water and several falls. Walk up to the tea house and take 7h, the highest trail back which gives you spectacular mountain views. Allow 2 hours minimum."
"Make sure to go all the way to the sixth bridge to enjoy a more natural trail. Suitable for children I'd you stick to trail 7. Follow signs for trail 7 but if you feel up for a challenge, I highly recommend taking the 7h when you return from the 6th bridge. It's a steep way up but the view is absolutely worth it! Other interesting thing is how much wildlife I saw on my way to the canyon parking lot, 4 bears in 4 different spots by the side of the road. Not to be missed while you're in Jasper area!"
This was a great trail and beautiful setting. Fantastic views of the canyon and the flowing water offered great opportunities for pictures.
"Don't pass by this very nice stop on the drive to Maligne Lake. The upper part of the canyon can be seen with a short walk. For those who want to see more, longer hikes are available."
Took us 50 minutes to hike all the way down taking lots of time for pictures too. You have to see the beauty to fully understand. Main trail we took great and has railings down 90% of it. Have bear spray just in case :) as they are around. Guided hikes down are available if you choose. Hike back up was a workout for sure. Gift shop is lovely and a must visit.
We didn't expect it to be so interesting and deep until we actually started walking the trail. We covered 5 of the 6 bridges and the hike was well worth it. The many water falls were very interesting
Did shorter hike and circled back so avoided redoing down steps. Beautiful chasms and setting. Didn't find fossils.
"We stopped at the canyon on our way back from a beautiful hike up Bald Hills near Maligne Lake. The canyon is easy to get to, and very impressive to look into when standing on the bridge.
Worth a stop!"
"After reading numerous reviews, we decided to begin our hike from the 6th bridge which was the lowest; walk our way up to the 1st bridge at the top; then come back down the same way to complete the loop. Based on our own experience, I recommend that you start your hike at the 5th bridge where the main attractions begin. The part between 6th and 5th bridge is both long (45 min round trip) and not as interesting. If you do a round trip between the 5th and 1st bridges, it would take 2-2.5 hours depending on how many rest and photo stops you take. There are lots of scenic views and plunging waterfalls. However, if you have limited time in Jasper, I would recommend Athabasca Falls instead because it takes less time to cover (1 vs. 2.5 hrs), is much easier to do, and is much more stunning to look at."
"beautiful scenery, great geological information, but the walk is not for someone with knee, hip or back problems, lots of roots and rocks to stumble over, steps and stairs are not on the same height levels. The beer at the restaurant are very expensive!"
That´s a great place to go for Nature lovers and families. Nices sights and good place to hike. I do recommend it
"Stopped on the way to Maligne Lake. Well worth the short loop but if you can do the hike of the 5 bridges, is well worth the effort."
"Everyone should take the time when they are in Jasper to experience this very lovely area and go for a walk. There are trails around suitable for families, couples or pretty much anyone :)"
"Well worth a visit, spectacular views with information points along the paths. Good car park with toilet facilities"
The canyon is beautiful & the surrounding walking nature trail is also good. We even saw a swift bird that is special to the canyon!
"Went here to see the canyon and for a short walk.The canyon is approached from the car park and all signs are at the far end from the road.Went onto the trail which is mostly hard surface. It descends quite steeply and crosses the canyon several times. There are lots of information boards telling you about the canyon, it's wildlife etc. We ascended back towards where we joined the trail to find we had joined at bridge 2 so continued along to bridge 1. This part was the flatted and easiest to walk and led to the farthest end of the car park near the restaurant.This is a lovely place with lots of good information."
"Awesome drive up the road, go all the way to the top. Free Parking and lots to see. It is just amazing, go on the walk at all the bridges or start at one and go through them all, quite a hike forsure but some is all very easy. If you have a crazy car and like to drive on Curvy mountain roads late at night and think it would be cool, this is the road to do it but please just be very careful, but other than safety, just be aware of wildlife and bears and elk and Caribou. It is an amazing attraction and one of a kind."
"the Maligne Canyon was fantastic, we left the car at bridge 1 and walked our way down to 4 (next day we did 5 & 6 ).the nature was amazing, and all the animals
highly recommended, if you have time."
We started our hike at the sixth bridge to Maligne Canyon. Great hike and loved the views of the canyon from top to bottom!
Its definitely worth the drive to check out the Maligne Canyon which is located 2kms from Jasper in the Jasper National Park. The scenery is breathtaking along the way. Basically one can walk the six bridges which is approx. 6kms or drive to the top of the canyon and take a short walk to the Maligne Canyon lookouts which we did. The Maligne Canyon is one of the deepest river canyons found in the Canadian Rockies and runs underground 32kms from Medicine Lake to the Athabasca River.
"an outstanding area of beauty. well worth a visit, the scenery is beautiful, lovely waterfalls. There is also s restaurant and bathroom facilities on site. Plus free parking. After your visit, continue on to Maligne lake which is outstanding. You can do a boat cruise ( highly recommended) and canoes. There are also bathroom facilities, a cafe and gift shop. None overpriced. We can highly recommend this trip."
"The canyon, river and waterfalls are awesome - the best I've seen in either Jasper or Banff National Parks. There is a 'circuit' to walk around the canyon, which takes about about 20 - 30 minutes and an excellent visitor centre, gift shop and restaurant. Allow up to an hour for your visit."
"Went for a drive around 8 pm, SAw moose, group a rams mountain sheep very close right by the car, male and female deer."
Absolutely magnificent. Words can hardly describe this place. The ice had mostly melted by the time we got there. The water was rushing and roaring through the canyon. Lots of smaller waterfalls were created along the way. We also hiked to all 6 bridges that traverse the canyon. About 6klms run trip. Can be dangerous in places especially when wet. But such good fun.
"The drive, from Jasper, was well worth the time to see the Maligne Canyon. Our destination was a boat tour, but the journey was as enjoyable as the destination. On our way we were greeted with beautiful, snow-capped mountain views, rivers, lakes, recent devastation from forest fires, and abundant wildlife.Stop at Medicine Lake; it's an amazing site."
"hiked from the top to the bottom, such a beautiful hike. A little challenging going back up but worth it!"
"A nice easy,casual stroll that will show you what the beauty of Jasper,The Rockies and nature is all about.Start at the top of the canyon and the hike is practically all down hill.You will see some of natures finest work.Whether it is waterfalls,canyons,wildlife or the sheer majesty of it all you will not be disappointed and you won't even break a sweat!"
I was on a Sundog tour headed to Lake Maligne and Medicine Lake and our first stop was here. Really very interesting in seeing what nature can accomplish with water and time. I understand that the sight is even more spectacular in the winter with all the ice sculpturing. All I can say is that it was impressive even in May.
Maligne Canyon is an amazing canyon in the winter where you can go into the canyon itself and walk on the ice and look at the ice formations closely from the waterfalls. You can do a guided Ice canyon walk or you can do it on your own as long as you got good boots to wear! I do it every winter because it'd never the same every year. Great for anyone of any age! I've seen older people and children in the canyon itself.
Reasonable walk to an unexpected example of nature at its best. Such deep canyons and a must to see. The sound of the water before you see it alerts you to what awaits your eyes. Simply beautiful.
By far the highlight of this trip. The ice sculptures were amaxing and the hike was magnificent. I recommend a guide as thy can point out many hidden dangers.
Hard to explain how much better this place is than the photos. You can do a short walk or a long one but the canyon is just amazing in terms of how deep it is.
"Definitely worth the stop. Hiked all the way down from the upper parking lot to the 5th bridge. Hike down past the first bridge to enjoy this special place away from the mobs of tour bus picture snappers. Alternatively, park at the 5th Bridge and hike up."
"This is a remarkable example of centuries of water erosion, quite spectacular in places. The walks vary in length and difficulty - enough to suit everyone. Essential if you're living / travelling/ staying anywhere near"
Walked from the 5th bridge through the canyon. Not to hard plenty to look at. Restaurant at the top was good a welcome tea stop. Then came back via 7f a lovely high easy walk back with views of Jasper. Quite steep going back down to 5th bridge so take care
I stopped off at the Canyon which like Athabasca has an interesting deep narrow gorge with some historical significance in its six (?) bridges.
"Very Breathtaking place, good hiking trails, ample opportunity to spot wildlife, helps to understand the power of nature"
The views and scenery surrounding us was unbelievable. Gob smacking beautiful. Great spot to stretch the lags and take photo's or bring out the thermos and sandwiches.
"Magnificent views from the path & bridges 1, 2 & 3. Amazing how water has such power, esp coupled with rounded rocks to scour out potholes. The walk to bridge 2 is easy but down to (and back from) bridge 3 requires a little more effort. In my view, absolutely worth the extra effort. Just take your time and use the seats to rest."
"Well worth a visit. Spectacular view of this mini canyon. The moss/lichen is fascinating also! Take a 15 min hike around the trail but take your time. Enjoy the canteen and shop, some of the best priced items around"
"I was dropped off at the Tea House and walked down hill and was picked up at the 5th bridge - which made for a pleasant walk. There were many good views into the canyon along the rim of this upper trail especially from the bridges. Loop tracks are available for those without a pick-up arrangement. It is also nice to look for the fossils embedded in the limestone of the walking track (pour a bit of water on them to see them better), especially near the Tea House."
"Saw deer. Black bear, grizzly, eagles, osprey, moose. A well knowing driver enhanced the enjoyment of the trip."
I decided I would propose to my partner in Jasper at some point. We decided to go for a walk through the Canyon and it was the perfect place. Some of the time its quite hard to see down the canyon as its so deep but you can get some great views in other places. Great trip with multiple different routes!
Wonderful walk. Bit steep at times but worth the effort. Incredible views down the canyon and also black swifts nesting
"This was my first time to Maligne Canyon and it was truly amazing! The views down into the canyon were just staggering. It's hard to imagine that this water has been slowly and incessantly eating away at the canyon rock for thousands of years. The drop in some place is scary. There is a winter walk directly inside the canyon which must be quite impressive.The pathway is paved and is an easy walk for anyone. The edges are fenced off so the danger is minimal unless you decide to hop the fence for a closer look. If you're lucky, you'll see a black swift swoop down the canyon into a nest that they make in the canyon walls. No danger of ever being disturbed in there. I would definitely recommend a visit if you're in Jasper."
"Had to turn back just before the 5th bridge as a grizzly was spotted there. So beautiful, highly recommend."
"I've been to Maligne Canyon many times throughout the years. Summer, fall, winter, spring... It's always stunning. If you want a lazy tip, go with 2 vehicles and park one at the bottom (5th bridge) then drive all your people up to the top of Maligne canyon and walk down together to the other vehicle. I highly recommend the ice walk in winter. You can book with the tour company in town and includes boots and cleats. You go right down into the canyon and get magnificent views of the frozen waterfalls."
Really good tour from Jasper with Marie who is so knowledgeable about the area and its habitat. We saw 6 moose and a black bear on our travels. Also had a boat trip on Maligne Lake with a visit to Spirit Island with Captain Mallory at the helm and excellent guide Megan. Such a wonderful trip.
"The Maligne Canyon Icewalk with Sundog tours at Jasper National park was truly an amazing experience.its is a magical place during winter with its frozen waterfalls, surreal ice formations and frosted limestone walls... Incredible!!"
Did this trail in Spring. Easy to follow trail that gets you close to the river with beautiful scenery and multiple starting points.
"God is a great creator....blessed to see Maligne Canyon. The water fall, lake and surrounding are breath taking and we took tons of pictures. Would love to go back durning the winter to see the bottom of he canyon and the ice."
"We visited this on a rainy and cloudy day, but this didn't detract from the experience, it doesn't need to be sunny. There are a few options with regards to the walk, but if you are pressed for time or unable to manage steps, bridges 1 and 2 both give wonderful views. If you can spend more time, and can manage some steep steps on the way back, you should venture further - we made it to bridge 4 and back in an hour. The falls are not particularly spectacular, but still very nice, and the canyon views are amazing. There is an eagle's nest which we didn't find, but we did see a glimpse of the eagle flying through the trees. The canyon is a must see if you visit Jasper."
This canyon is amazing. We allowed a good 2 hours and walked to the 4th bridge. Very dramatic and beautiful still a little snow/ice as well. Good marked trails.
"The drive itself is lovely and when you get there the canyon is awe inspiring. Don't miss this when in Jasper. The trails are spectacular with rocks, crevices and waterfalls. Simply amazing!"
Be sure to visit this amazing canyon if you are in the area. We got there by 9am which was before the tour buses arrived. We hiked down to Bridge 3 and headed back. It is steep in some places and not suitable for people who have walking issues. A beautiful place if you love nature.
"a great place must see. great scenery and deep canyon. and a great work out , a good hike. took many pictures"
"Maligne Canyon was worth a visit. The different waterfalls and rock formations were fascinating. We hiked to Bridge 3 area and then returned to the starting point. Be aware that the trail is not flat. I saw older people struggling to catch their breath as they climbed the steep steps in some areas between Bridge 2 and 3. We drove to Bridge 5, which we didn't think was worth our time. You can actually drive to Bridge 5 and 6 if you don't want to hike. We arrived at the Bridge 1 area around 9AM but within 10 minutes of our arrival several tour buses had also reached the site and it was crowded. Fortunately, most tour groups didn't go beyond the first or second bridge."
"Well worth a visit to this amazing site. Not overly commercialised, although there is a cafe and a decent gift shop. There are several different walks around the canyon, depending on the time you have available, and they are not too strenuous. There are pathways and handrails along the trails, although some are quite steep and uneven so may not suit the less able."
Being local I can say we have gone here many times. In the summer there is a trail you can take. I recommend getting dropped off at the top by the tea house and walking down to 5th bridge about a 1hr walk at the most. In the winter go to the 5th bridge and walk in a ways on the trail till you see where everyone crosses over the fence and walks on the frozen creek bed for incredible views looking up the canyon and spectactuar ice falls. Sometimes you can see people using ice picks to climb with. Guide services can be hired but are not really required if your careful. I recommend that you have ice cleats for your boots they make the trip a bit easier.
Maligne Canyon is truly a magical spot to see how the water has carved the rock over thousands of years. A pleasant walk to capture the beauty of this canyon.
"Nature never fails to impress. Very easy to get to before you can enjoy the cut rock to the water below. We walked the majority of the trail, which gave us a good workout but totally worth the views along the way. Finished with lunch in the cafe."
Take a trek down to the fourth bridge and enjoy all the cascading water...wish we had more time there
The Maligne Canyon is breathtaking. There are a number of beautiful waterfalls to see and the trail is fairly easy to walk.
How can water cut rocks so deep and so many different effect? The short hike (20 minutes) will reveal deep gorges in a short distance. There are longer hikes but stop and at least take the short hike.
"It's one of the main tourist attraction in Jasper National park, located not far away from Jasper town center. You may be lucky to see some wild animals on the way."
We weren't able to do the full hike cause of my pregnancy but the little bit that we did I was very happy with and had smiles the whole time. Will definitely be back to finish it!
"A Jasper must. The Maligne Canyon trail consists of six bridges that overlook the canyon below. The canyon is very deep and quite incredible. You can start the hike from varying points and can gage how much time you want to spend easily. The hike is equally beautiful at each of the bridges. The trails are easy to access and have a small incline, but are still generally easy. Definitely recommend Maligne Canyon to all visiting Jasper National Park."
This was my favourite stop of the day trip to Jasper. Its a perfect place for a hike for beginners. The scenery and amazing and the trail has excellent stops along the way. Loved the waterfall near bridge 5! The trails are clearly marked. And if you walk at a decent pace. You can complete the hike to bridge 5 and back in a little over an hour.
"This was an extrodinary hike. We took the red trail which may be a bit challenging for some. Beautiful glacier water, falls, rock bed.
Would definitely recommend. Wear good hiking shoes and bring water ."
"We started our hike on the trail high up in the canyon. It's slower to start and then you get into the canyon where all the action is. Scenic waterfalls, rock formations, creeks, etc. The hike is longer and somewhat challenging. Bring lots of water. We recommend leaving the trail where safe and exploring a bit in the lower part of the canyon. The views are breathtaking. So many photo opportunities. The plaques along the trail explain a lot of the history on how the canyon formed and the geologic factors at play. Maligne Canyon was the highlight of our trip."
The scenery is amazing. Clean fresh air. Nice to escape everyday life. Relaxing and nice to be a part of nature. It's a must see.
We did a short stop here (only crossing Bridges 1&2) and enjoyed the beauty of the barely frozen canyon. This is a jaunt for only those who have good mobility as it can be a steeper walk and more difficult to traverse with snow/ice. It becomes steeper the higher the level of bridges visited. Bridges 1&2 are closer to the parking lot but 3-? are further down the canyon. My mother-in-law (70 years) managed Bridges 1-2 but I would not have brought her any further as she has some mobility issues.
I have been here a few times over the years and is worth the walk. I am not in shape at all but I just took my time. This allowed me to enjoy it and take pictures while resting.
"3 different trails you can follow. Short one recommended for those who has difficulty with hills. We did the medium trail. Was hilly and steep at points, but Canyon is beautiful. We also saw wildlife on the trail. Long trail is 1 to 2 hours in length."
"Hiked canyon trails 7f and 7 from P1 to P6 sixth bridge and back, had most of the trails to ourselves, had the honour of seeing a white wolf near P6. Trails were in great shape, dry, only odd bits of mud close to the canyon. Ice rapidly melting in Canyon but still worth viewing. Will definitely try and visit in winter for the ice walk."
Hitting this right on the turn of the season you get the best of both worlds. Some snow and ice on the lakes just makes stunning photos. Well worth a drive up or take a tour. A guide makes it much more informative and you feel you learn something about the place rather than just going to have a look.
"My partner and I booked a tour through Sundog which was just fantastic! We were really lucky as we pretty much had a private tour with Sean, who was so knowledgeable and friendly, and really brought the canyon and the woodland area to life. We learnt so much from him, and getting to walk in the canyon was really spectacular. As the canyon was melting, Sean made us feel safe at all times by showing us where to walk. This was also the last day of the tour for the season, so we felt really privileged to get this opportunity. We would definitely recommend going on this tour. Thank you Sean and Sundog!"
"We did this on our own rather than with a tour....being spring break up season we did not go through the fence into the lower portion of the canyon off the public walkway. This is close to Jasper, easily accessible, you don't need a tour to see it :) bring a bottle of water"
Great winter hike and scenery you can't easily come by elsewhere. Bring your ice cleats and go on your own - no tour is required! It is an easy walk once you get down to the canyon and there no entry fees.
"A great variety of hikes available for beginners to advanced. If you like a longer hike 7.5 Kms start at the 6th bridge parking lot as you hike along the Athabasca River which makes for some great scenic shots. You can shorten your hike by 1.8Kms both ways (3.6 Kms) by starting at the 5th bridge. If you are with small kids who might not be able to last that long, the area by 1st through 4th bridges have a large parking lot and restaurant plus a gift shop located there."
"My sister and I took a guided tour with SundogTours to the Maligne Canyon! It was breathtaking and adventurous! So many beautiful pictures and our guide, David Yasko was humorous and informative!!"
"Highly recommend this canyon be visited on a sunny day in late February early March. The canyon is accessible by car a few minutes north side Jasper lodge. The trail is well marked and fenced and takes about 2.5 hours, walking leisurely. Park you car at either end, Bridge 5 or Bridge 1, where you'll find ample parking. At Bridge 1 there is a tea shop opened in the late spring and summer. No real need to have a guide, however in the winter and early spring the trail is icy and muddy. Wear good hiking shoes or boots. Be sure to rent slip on ice cleats from either the Spirit of Skiing or the Edge Control ski shop on Connaught street in Jasper for $8-10/day. Also remember to bring a water bottle along with a light snack to enjoy during the many stops for sites and reading boards you'll come to along the trail. The hike is along the canyon, nearer to bridge 3 there are places where you can easily access the canyon floor and walk along the frozen, exploring the caves and frozen ice falls. The scenary is spectacular, a great way to spend a restful day from downhill skiing."
"The Maligne cCnyon is a stunning limestone canyon about 11km from Jasper.
My husband and I did the blue walk which was an easy loop over bridges 2 & 1 from the carpark.
There is a pretty teahouse at the end of it with washrooms."
"We went on our own, not a tour but we loved it! It was very icy, I recommend wearing gripper pads on your shoes and we also had walking sticks. Amazing views in a beautiful setting."
"this is a must if in Jasper we booked with sundog tours and David our tour driver was excellent and had a good sense of humour,"
"Visited Maligne Canyon in March 2016 after a very mild winter. We rented ice Trekkers from Source for Sports and would definitely recommend doing so if you don't have your own. We made our way down over the bridges and saw some amazing views. We did go down into the canyon and walked along a little ways using extreme caution. Lots of melting, falling rocks and ice. Breathtaking views and a fun excursion for those who don't want to ski/snowboard!"
"My girlfriend and I hiked the trails, with backpacks we didn't need and had no problem hiking for half a day through the trails. No far from town either. Totally worth the visit."
"My wife and I hiked the Canyon last summer and it is spectacular. Such beauty everywhere you look. It is a well travelled hike so really anyone could do it I would think. Very peaceful walk, nature at it's finest. Definitely bring a camera to capture some beautiful pictures of the canyon and at one point you can see a gorgeous shot of Pyramid Mountain, depending on the weather."
Good parking with nice hikes. Very impressive view of very deep canyons. Photo's can not show this impressiveness.
Beautiful place to walk through. This time of the year the trails were slippery in places so make sure you have proper footwear. A lot of people had grips for their shoes and seemed to work really well.
We went in the winter and it was extremely slippery. We couldn't go all the way as it was too dangerous. We did see a couple of people climbing the frozen waterfall and that was really interesting.
"Went here in the fall while touring around Jasper. Saw big horned sheep and a black bear on the way to the canyon walk. Fairly well signposted, safe trail - steep stairs in place. Recommended it to other visitors"
We decided to take a look and get some exercise. Make sure that you have boots with great support and traction. If you are not well equipped you may want to pay for the tour as they will provide you with something to put over your shoes so you don't slip.
"I went on a ice walk to the the Canyon and really enjoyed it. I've never seen anything like it, so much ice, icicles and it was a really interesting trip. I'd definitely recommend it."
"Never climb over barriers. Today we witnessed a boy and his father fall into the canyon; both slipped on ice. They will survive, I pray."
"We went for a walk with Sundog tours which picked us up at Jasper Park Lodge, and outfitted us with comfortable boots with Icers on the bottom to prevent slipping. Alicia gave us a very informative tour and safely got us all (some of us are seniors) over some tricky spots."
Such an amazing tour! The beauty of the frozen waterfalls was great! Very informative guides that made the tour a pleasure.
Not to be missed. Our guide Alicia was interesting and informative and a lot of fun. The walk was quite challenging at times but with Alicia's guidance we all managed to navigate the tight spots
"Went with Sun Dog tours into the ice canyon. The tour operator picked us up at the hotel, fitted everyone with boots and was super knowledgeable about Jasper, the Rockies, local flora/fauna, and everthing in between!"
"I have done Maligne Canyon in both the summer and the winter. Winter hiking is a whole new experience. The water was frozen so we walked along the river. It was absolutely amazing.If you plan on doing this hike, please get ice cleats. You can buy them for $10 at Wal-Mart or anything sporting goods store. We had them and they definitely came in handy. Watching people struggle along in Uggs or dress shoes was entertaining."
Take time out to just enjoy the beauty and majesty that Canada has to offer and you will not be disappointed.
"Took a walk with a friend along the trail. It was great to have the chain link fence to hold onto because the trail & steps were slippery as in the afternoon of Feb 16, 2016, it was sunny and temperature in plus side. It was an experience to remember to look into the canyon frozen below; the side of the canyon wall's ice build up - icicles with different formations; took many photos. Saw a group of people climbing the ice wall of the canyon; people walking below in the canyon. It was worth the trip there, but I would be bring ice cleats to attach to the bottom of my boots. I'll return in the summer and compare the views to the winter scenes."
The ice walk through the canyon was beautiful. This was the highlight of our winter Jasper trip. A rare geological feature easily accessible from Jasper.
"Enjoyed an excellent ice-walk with Joy of Sundog Tours in Jasper, Alberta on Valentine's Day 2016. Awesome place to visit and Joy ensured we saw some excellent sights! Many thanks to Joy for a wonderful experience in the Mountains. Highly recommended!"
"This is a great hike to do...it's about 3 1/2 km but not too difficult. The views are amazing! There is no charge, as this is covered under the entrance fee you paid to get in to Jasper National Park."
"Was very slippery but the kids enjoyed the hike and sliding on their bottoms in there
snow pants. Would be much nicer to go when the waterfalls are flowing."
"We took the Maligne Canyon walk led by a very well informed young guide, starting at the top of the canyon at the first bridge and trekking down 3.5 kms along the canyon to the fifth bridge. A bus picked us up from our hotel in Jasper and dropped us at the top of the canyon. It was a most fantastic experience. At places the canyon is scarily deep and at others there are fascinating geological formations. Information boards provide very interesting accounts of how the canyon was formed. It is a treat for students of geography and geology and all those who have interest in these subjects. We did not see much wild life but spotted some interesting plants and flowers. It is an easy trek, takes about 3 to 3 and half hours and you can take some amazing photographs. Our bus was waiting for us near the fifth bridge to take us back to the hotel. Highly recommended for all except small children."
"A beautiful canyon hike, with 6 bridges over the canyon. Park at the top of the canyon or the 5th bridge at the bottom and hike the canyon. In the winter you can canyon crawl on the frozen bottom of the canyon. Go with a guide or explore on your own, ices/creepers are required on the ice. Visit in the summer and see the roaring Maligne river raging down the canyon."
"So beautiful !! Make sure you check the weather and check in with the park office in conditions in the area.
The parking lot isn't far from main town jasper."
"We booked a guided tour with ""Sundog"". It was an amazing experience. The guide was not just very knowledgable but also careful and helped out wherever it was needed. Mark it down on your ""to do list""."
The cruise to Spirit Island is one of a kind experience. It was raining but it didn't dampen the awesomeness of the view particularly the Spirit Island itself which is the second most photographed place in the canadian rockies.
"We visited Maligne Canyon on the last day of our magnificent Rockies trip. We almost did not go and what a mistake that would have been. It is absolutely stunning and when we got to the end of the walk and up close to the magnificent waterfall it was well worth it. People will,tell you that you can see the waterfall from the car park, which you can, but it does not compare with standing right beside it. Canada is a beautiful country and we have now enjoyed 3 different yet wonderful holidays there."
"Decided to visit the Canyon with my girlfriend to take in some sights of Jasper. I had never been here personally although my girlfriend had so she knew what we were getting into. We packed a lunch to have on the hike through which was convienient and a good idea. I beleive there is a restraunt at the canyon or close to which you can grab a bite to eat.There were some very nice waterfalls and vertical views to be had on the hike. I definitely recommend spending the time to do the hike although it can be long.I recommend you bring sunscreen, a snack and/or lunch, bugspray, sunscreen, proper hiking boots or good shoes, and lots of water especially on hot days. The walk was long and I dont think we even made it to the end being that it was a super hot day but well worth the experience."
Amazing experience in winter. I was able to see this in summer and now in winter. Based on my own experience I recommend going during winter. Able to actually walk on the canyon.
Visiting the Ice Walk in the Canyon was the highlight of the trip. We decided to do it on our own and not take the tour and ended up spending much more time than we planned to as it was so beautiful. Good strong ice cleats are a must for this walk and with the mild winter we have had some parts of the frozen river were like liking through a slushie. The ice formations along the way were beautiful but the most amazing were left for last at the end of the walk.
"Summertime or late fall hiking around Maligne Canyon is quite pretty with views down into the canyon of gorgeous worn rock formations, pools and small water falls. Take your camera because there are lots of photo opportunities. There are a series of well-marked hiking trails that follow along the river with a number of bridges at different locations. The hiking isn't too challenging as it is mostly along the river valley although there are a few small elevation gains. Good, comfortable walking shoes are recommended. There is a teahouse at the parking lot which I have yet to explore (it was closed both in the fall and winter when we visited) but peeking through the window they have some spectacular artwork for sale.Wintertime the teahouse is closed but the Canyon and trails are accessible. You have your choice of using a local tour company or heading out to the canyon on your own if you want to walk the bottom of the frozen canyon. Locals can be found with full on ice climbing gear scaling the frozen waterfalls. You can rent ice-cleats at a local ski shop for about $8/day if you want to walk it yourself. There are access points to the river along the main trail past the second bridge. Care should be taken if there is flowing water present as some of the pools can be quite deep but by mid to late winter everything is frozen pretty solid. Hiking the bottom of the canyon is pretty spectacular. The ice formations are beautiful and the canyon looks totally different when you are at the bottom looking up! It is fun to stop and watch the ice climbers on the waterfalls, just watch out for falling ice! Again, take your camera - there are lots of neat things to photograph.Maligne Canyon is a 13 minute drive from the Jasper townsite. You can hike to it in a couple of hours or bike the 12 km from the townsite past the Jasper Park Lodge to the canyon."
I visited the Maligne Canyon during the summer and found the sights to be splendid- however the winter is even better. This past January I went for an ice walk with the Sundog tours and it was simply amazing...all the wonderful formations of ice and a superb guide. I would have loved to do the night walk up the canyon. Best of winter Jasper
"This stop was part of our Banff and Jasper tour. Nice walk thru the tall trees with the water cascading beside you. Great spots to stop and take photos. We were there about 30 minutes, it was also raining. They have a beautiful shop with gifts and pictures. As well as a cafe."
"Nice for a walk. But watch out for the disappointing cafe - they had very average food, and the terrace was closed when we were there even though it was a lovely day."
"Great excursion on Christmas Day. Beautiful. Frozen waterfalls, towering pines, breathtaking beauty (literally at -25*). Approx 4km walk."
We hired a guide to take us on an ice walk- we could have easily done this hike ourselves- we did find the clampons helpful and some of the information was interesting but my Chemist daughter pointed out some discrepancies. The canyon was breathtaking in the winter! Will remember this hike forever!
"this is a must see when in the Rockies. Take the time to visit the artists, painting this beautiful spot, the roar of the falls, this is a breathtaking!"
Walk down the canyon and you will feel the temperature change. Good to experience the water and see the explanation of the underground flow of the water into the canyon.
"Lovely place to visit, paths were a little slippery near some parts.but our stop was quite a brief one, we did stop in the restaurant for a quick snack &look around the souvenir shop"
The walk around Maligne Canyone was lovely - a bit steeper one way than the other with plenty of places to admire the breathtaking view. Picnic tables at one end offer a quiet picturesque place to snack on the treats you brought with you; a teahouse at the other end offers simple lunch items (not gourmet but definitely fresh food) and a jam-packed gift shop selling the typical Canadian maple candies to $$$ soap stone carvings and paintings by Canadian artists.
This place is unreal! Went on a tour with sundog and it was gorgeous. Really bundle up in the winter and bring finger warming pods if you can. I suggest going with a tour because they give you ice tread things and allow you to really explore! Will go back!! Incredible.
Was great to venture down on the ice and walk on the frozen river pretty easy to find your way down there on your own with a few spots marked as entry points at your own risk. Also saw some great spots for some ice climbing
"WE took a quick afternoon walk on the short trail. It is a hard packed snow trail so was quite slippery. best to have a walking stick or better yet, spikes on the shoes. If you are part of a paid tour, the give you the spikes. We just stopped in on our own so no spikes. We couldn't go all the way down with out the spikes so stayed on the upper trail. Also parts of the trail are very steep so if you have any mobility issues, stay on the upper 20 minute pathway. They are well marked on the map in the parking lot.Even the 20 minute walk is beautiful so if you only have a short time frame or can't walk far but still want to see the canyon, this walk is a good one."
"We booked an ""ice walk"". however mother nature didn't cooperate with the timing of our visit to Jasper! There was little ice in the canyon at the time which was disappointing. The trail could be better marked for winter exploring."
Definitely worth seeing. It's the deepest gorge in the Canadian Rockies. The whole region is so picturesque and I'd love to go back in winter.
"Beautiful place to visit, amazing scenic place. Loved the natural environment, really surreal. So glad to have the chance to visit."
Spent an entire morning hiking here with family and it was well worth it. Would recommend a longer visit if you have the time. This is a must see while in the area of Jasper.
"The walk through Maligne Canyon is amazing, to walk where a river goes through in the summer is unbelievable. Frozen waterfalls, ice caves, it's a must do."
"Lovely visit, fresh air and breathtaking views. Been several times and never gets boring =) worth spending an afternoon at for sure"
"This was so prettyWe hiked the whole trail (and a bit off the trail) with our 6 year old and all of us agree is was the trip highlight. We saw several frozen waterfalls and some had not frozen yet. Originally we had signed up to do an ice walk tour but decided to cancel it. I'm glad we cancelled the tour, it is not necessary to take a tour. We were able to walk on the canyon floor and onto the ice without the added cost of a tour guide. Also there was no time restriction placed on us so we were able to enjoy the scenery at our own pace"
Fantastic tour offered by sundog tours. Really spectacular scenery. We climbed down into the bed of the river and walked along the ice surface to admire the frozen waterfalls.our tour went for around 3 hours. Relatively easy going.
Definitely the must see minutes out of jasper. Good footwear and warm clothes are a must. Wethersfield or not you take in a 20 min walk or venture out to the 3hr walk through all the trails. Nature's beauty at its best. Late October visit meant we got to see the force of the water flowing as well as the beauty of the ice formations under the numerous falls
One of the best things to do in Jasper. Comparatively it is an easy hike with great views despite the recent forest fires. Lots of wildlife to be seen if you walk early enough.
"This was an unplanned visit and was a marvellous discovery. Due to the fires, our cruise on Lake Maligne was cancelled and our tour guide suggested a visit to the Maligne Canyon instead. It was incredible, the rushing water, the deep chasms, the forest and native flora all took our breath away."
"My wife and I have been here several times and usually take family/friends when they visit Edmonton. This is an easy hike with amazing scenery and lots of picture opportunities. You probably won't see any wildlife as it is a very popular attraction, but it is still worth it!"
"One of the top attractions in these parks. Don't miss falls #1, next to the middle of the parking lot. If you start from the end of the parking lot you may go down & not realize this area is even there. Most of the crowds stay up around the top 2 falls. We saw very few people down at the 3rd & 4th falls. It may be best to start at the bottom, falls #5, and walk up then back down, but I'm not sure how long this is as we went past falls #4 but stopped somewhere short of falls #5."
Great walking alongside the canyon and following the river downstream past all the bridges. Fantastic scenery and wildlife we didn't spot any bears but plenty of birds and chipmunks
Went here with a hockey team that I was coaching at the time. Everyone loved it and it was a nice walk. Beautiful views and interesting to learn about the canyon.
"Very beautiful area. Awesome seeing all the frozen waterfalls and beauty of the mountains. For those that like nature and walks this is for you. We took some water and small snacks, we were really glad we did. If you go to Jasper go here."
So nice to walk along by the Canyon and look down at the roaring water! Look out for bears! You can also take a tour in a boat on Maligne Lake.
"Hiking this canyon was the best part of my trip. My two children, 13 and 6 manage to hike for almost three hours and they loved it."
"Have visited this spot ten times, even in the winter. Cannot go to Jasper without going there. Did a tour in the winter and it was so interesting to see this canyon from a different perspective, up close and touching. Saw many ice climbers having a day of it. Have gone back with my young children and they find it interesting and beautiful in the summer."
"Still worth a visit in the winter time. Very beautiful water fall where you can see the water rushing behind the ice. The walk is quite long, just go a bit beyond bridge 4 and you will have seen a lot already."
"It's hard to explain how beautiful it is, you need to experience it for yourself. The pictures I took will never live up to actually seeing it. Even in winter, the sights are amazing. Take the trip, you'll thank yourself."
"Maligne Canyon is really a gem in Jasper National Park. From summer mists spraying up in numerous locations to the frozen opportunity hiking or climbing from the canyon floor in winter. I do prefer the winter opportunities as can the intrepid novice to the ardent ice climber. Headlamps,some form of ice grabbing footwear (crampons to the runners ice grippers will meet any number of needs) the canyon is a genuine wonderland. Take a recommended guide or go it alone you won't be disappointed. Go late when the guided crews are completed is my prefered experience."
"Maligne Canyon was only 10 miles up the road from Jasper, we decided that we would not come this way again and should look at the canyon especially as the June weather had become less menacing. Misinterpreting the map, we passed through the canyon and struck out for the tea house, failing to realise that we had already passed it at the entrance. A couple of hours later, soaked to the skin and with my wife having taken a tumble we arrived back at the car park where I made a complete change of clothes in the Portaloo before we headed into Jasper for the last time. Make sure you plan better than we did – you only need walk a few hundred yards to see everything worthwhile, not miles like we did!"
"Take the complete walk trail with all the bridges,nice and not too heavy.After 5min; to walk it´s quiet"
"My husband and I have agreed this was our favourite canyon. The entire walk , which took about 2 hours (stopping to take photos and gasping at the delights of the canyon) was very picturesque and well worth the trip."
"Maligne Canyon (????) was the 2nd canyon we visited in Canada on this trip. It is located inside Jasper National Park (???????) in Alberta, Canada and about 10.5 km (6.5 mi) from Jasper town center. Maligne Canyon is a narrow canyon with a width of 2 m (6.6 ft) at some points and a depth of 50 m (160 ft). Maligne Canyon might have been hallowed out by water that flowed under a glacier, caving the canyon out of rock about 365-million years ago. The Maligne Canyon is really a gorge because it has slot-like feature carved in the floor of a U-shaped valley. We arrived around 5 pm and spent a few minutes in the Maligne Canyon Tea House before our hike on the Maligne Canyon Trail. Immediately we saw the narrow deep canyon with low level of water because our visit was in the late winter. In a couple of minutes, we reached the 1st foot bridge across the canyon below. 2nd foot bridge is also not far away. If you have limited time, then you can return to the parking lot by taking the fork at the 2nd bridge for a nice round trip. We didn’t stop here and instead continued with the steeper trail toward the 3rd bridge. We decided to conquer the gorge and went for another 15 minutes or so to the end of the gorge at the 4th bridge. There were so many beautiful waterfalls along the trail, and we took lots of photos of the canyon and its picturesque surroundings. There was some evidence of recent wildfire, which made us realize the power of nature. We also noticed the orange / yellow colored patches on the canyon wall. Later we learned that they are special rock-encrusting fungi called lichens. Because we arrived in the late afternoon, we didn’t go to the 5th and 6th bridges. The normal roundtrip is about one hour if you don’t spend too much time taking photos. You can also park your car at the 5th or 6th bridge and hike from there up to the teahouse, which might take you 3 hours round trip. It is important to be on the trail and to not climb over the fences. We saw some reckless guys going down to the canyon on the steep cliff. It can be slippery, especially on a raining day or when the snow is melting. We didn’t see any bathrooms from the teahouse to the 4th bridge. The Maligne Canyon Tea House at the beginning of the Maligne Canyon Trail has restrooms. They are closed after 6:00 pm, and the other public restrooms are near the entrance of the parking lot."
On our way from Jasper to Banff we took in very few sights but this was one that we made sure we stopped at. Just beautiful. Nice walking trails and the scenery is unbeatable. If you love waterfalls check this out!
It is a nice stop after the amazing boat ride on the lake. There is a fair amount of walking but well worth it.
"Me and my family (wife and 1 year old) went here in mid August (took me awhile to write my review). This was quite the experience seeing how much the falls eroded the rock.. We sure enjoyed it but only issue we had was the numerous flights of stairs, as we had a stroller.. We weren't expecting that.. We hiked up to the 4th fall (theres 6 i believe ) we then turned around, which led us to a hill with a steep incline, but it was all worth the hike.. In the winter when it's frozen you can book a tour with Jasper Tour Company (highly recommend) and the tour guide Joe will take you down into the canyon.. I haven't done this yet but I plan too.. This is definitely worth a stop if your heading to Malinge Lake"
"This site can be a bit crowded at peak season, but with good reason—this place is spectacular. A walk down to the fourth bridge and back will give you a mild workout and a break from the heavier crowds nearer the main parking lot."
"This place can also have lots of people but I came later in the day so 90% were gone. Day light is till around 9 in August so it is possible to see it. The review process here asks if this is free. The short answer is no but it is only because you need to pay the national park entrance fee, once you have paid that you can visit as many times as you want while your pass is valid."
"The scenery here is truly beautiful, there are many places to explore, but walking up and down those paths can be a real work-out, especially if you were not prepared for it. Still, its a lovely place to go."
Came here today in the morning. We were going to do the medium route but it only took us around 20-30 minutes so we decided to do the long route. It is November so there was snow everywhere and you do have to be careful of the ice but otherwise it was still fairly warm. The view is incredible with the icicles and the canyon. Very satisfying hike and not too hard. Will definitely come back during the summer.
this is a great place to spend all day hiking it is a must see kind of place the view is awesome any time of the year
"It was a very wet day, so we just talk a short walk around Maligne lake. Worth another visit and renting a kayak ."
It was a really good walk from the parking lot to the fifth bridge. A fair few steps (mainly downhill to the bridge) and a little uneven under foot in places but really enjoyable. The deep gorges are fascinating and I'm sure kids would enjoy it.
"We had to make a detour from our travels from jasper to lake Louise, but were mightily pleased we did. The drive down the dried-up river to the lake had some really nice views, and we even saw a black bear."
Had a great tiring time lol but was well worth it did only 1/4 of trail need to get into shape some really nice picture opportunities .
An impressive karst formation with well laid out trails that are meticulously maintained. Plenty of parking with an easy drive in. Plenty of photo opportunities along the length of the river.
"Never been to such a set of falls before this. The high, narrow gorge is seen to great effect from the series of bridges that span it a regular intervals each one giving different views and photo opportunities."
Nature's wonders abound in the Canadian Rockies. Maligne Canyon is no exception. The type of rock and force of the water has carved a deep yet very thin canyon. We absolutely loved the scenery and the trees surrounding the canyon. This is well worth a visit if you are staying in Jasper for a few days.
"Beautiful area, We only walked across the first two bridges.but we saw falls, chockstones, potholes, and more. The informative signs were very well done. Even if you don't have time to hike the full trail, it is worth the side trip to walk part of the trail."
Visit as many attractions as you can in this area. What amazing scenery everywhere - well worth our road trip
"we weren't going to go but our fishing guide said it was well worth it and so it was. Deep deep canyon only a few feet across, cut by the stream into the rocks. you can see how the whirlpools create holes in the rock. Very camera-worthy."
"We loved this place and spent nearly a whole day here, as there was plenty to see and do. We walked a trail which was about 4 mile through the forest, and was hoping to see Elk or Moose, but sadly they weren't there that day, it's quite a walk and you need the right footwear as there are muddy places and steep areas. We had our lunch by the lake, it was so peaceful and you got lost in time. You can go on a boat trip on the lake and it takes about 1hour. Thoroughly wonderful day."
"The pretty section is near the parking lot. The lower bridges (#1, #2, and #3) are easily accessed via an easier trail. The trail was harder beyond bridge #3. We walked up to the bridge #4. We were not impressed with the additional views between bridge #3 and bridge #4. We stopped.It took us about1.5 hours for our hike. We did enjoyed the walk."
"A perfect illustration for a geology lesson. You can strictly speaking see how the river moved with time. Plus this is very spectacular. Nice walk to 5th bridge. If you're not fit, drive to 5th bridge but do it to really see by yourself the difference of flow rate."
A short walk through stunning countryside with great views and excellent interpretative boards. Great insight into the geology of the Canadian Rockies.
"We started at the bottom of the canyon and walked up towards the gift shop. The walk is easy, with a well trodden and well marked path. The canyon is not as big as I was expecting but still very interesting with rock formations in the canyon viewable from bridges above the canyon. It is well signposted with information boards to highlight specific features along the canyon. In the gift shop there was a greenstone carving of a bear for sale at $1million, and It was still there when we left !"
"Did this hike several times. I recommend starting at the 1st bridge and hiking down. If you have access to 2 cars like we did park one at the 6th bridge parking area (or the 5th bridge parking area if you want a shorter hike) then drive up to the 1st bridge and hike down through the canyon. The canyon is beautiful. The hike is steep at points but not bad. My 70 year old mother did the whole thing. It is especially easy heading down. If you only have one car or want a more challenging hike then the trail back up will be steep at parts. The trail from the 5th bridge to the 6th bridge is all level and through a beautiful forest. Each part of the trail is unique and stunning. If you don't have time at least park at the 1st bridge and do the loop through the canyon. But if you have the time and energy for about 3 miles then do the whole thing...canyon, river, waterfalls, streams, forest...it has it all."
"Very well mapped out hike, beautiful views throughout. Great for beginners but still fun for more experienced hikers. We went off the trail and reached the summit which was very cool!"
"Right at the end of the valley drive you come to Maligne Lake with it's picture postcard setting, surrounded by mountains and stunning scenery. There are walks by the lake and full restaurant / gift shop facilities, would strongly recommend the boat trip although it is a little on the costly side of things, but a pleasant way to spend an hour and a half.A truly stunning location."
Every where you look is something different in the Canadian Rockies and these falls are no exception take your camera and take your time.
Lots of hiking trails around the Canyon. Beautiful waterfalls and interesting history of the area. Very enjoyable and breathtaking scenery.
"I really loved this place. I wish I had more time to explore. There are a lot of places to take pictures. It is accessible to everyone. Loved the color of the water, can't get over it."
"I have visited this location several times and always take visitors here when we travel to Jasper. IT is a short moderate hike, you can go as far or as short as you like. The two bridges have incredible views and are both close to the parking lot. If you want a longer hike you can go to the bottom where you get close to the water and even sit and have a packed lunch. Always a pleasure!"
"At first you think it alot to pay 34 dollars to go up but wow! The views are great, going up, they tell lots of info and once your there you see everywhere. Then you can walk up even more, it was alittle scary but well worth the hike. The gift shop and restaurant were also very friendly and good."
Very cool to see the way the water has carved the rocks! Hike in there are 6 bridges crossing the canyon and stop in the Tea room and see the million dollar jade polar bear for sale!
"Very fun hiking spot and if youre hot, this is the place to cool off! The glacial water flows through the bedrock and shoot ice cold air at you in spots and it is a very pretty landscape."
Ample parking to an incredibly deep canyon. If you do more than Bridge 1 and 2 you have to be in good shape as it is quite steep.
Start from the top and go down to the fifth bridge . Then return in your steps. The slope is not too steep and you are rewarded with spectacular views throughout the canyon
We came out of Maligne lake and dropped by this canyon attraction. The trail along the gorge is pretty long with lot of up-down steps. To see how the water has carved out this canyon though with a steep path down to the bottom and back but well worth it
"This lovely gorge is a series of small waterfalls and at times, the water more or less vanishes underground to re-emerge further downstream. There are quite a few steep ups and downs and someone with a degree of mobility impairment should probably tackle even the shortest route with caution. The best route if you want to just follow the gorge itself is along route 7 until you get to the cross roads with 7f then follow 7f back to the parking area. The various geological layers formed over eons is clearly visible as the river carved out the actual canyon - mostly in the limestone. Many great photo opportunities, and although pretty steep at times, solid underfoot albeit tiring as it is a bit over 4km there and back. Its within the Jasper Park so your park fee covers the entrance."
We visited this gorge while staying in Jasper. An interesting gorge - a change from all the lakes. Tracks excellent. Very deep.
"This attraction is just a few miles outside Jasper, easily reached by car. You have to be fairly agile to be able to walk up steps and gradients if you want to follow the water through the canyon. Great photo opportunities as you clamber alongside the river."
For those who love nature this is a must see. An impressive canion that shows how water and wind errosion can model the limestone. Short walk along the canion while taking pictures will leave you with nice memories.
We went there to do the geocache but the view was breath taking. We took great family picture with our son. I recommend to everyone to stop to see it.
"you can see the past of rocky.
it's long... it's very hard to get down hill side and go back to upside of canyon.
but it's very good. you should go there."
"We were on a tour, just coming from Maligne Lake and boat cruise to Spirit Island with a walk along the trail.This canyon is different geologically from others, due to the Karst topography ( landscape formed from the dissolution of soluble rocks such as limestone, dolomite, and gypsum). It is characterized by underground drainage systems with sinkholes and caves. To us, this walk was very interesting, seeing the canyon, its canyon walls, rock formations, as well as the Maligne Falls. The rock formations and how the water, combined with minerals, was different from some other canyons,"
a pleasant enough drive. the newly-burned out area was an eye opener. Mother nature will rebuild. Interesting to see a fresh fire burn.
Amazing to see how the river has carved out this canyon. It is a steep path down to the bottom and back but well worth it
Without wanting to appear unjust the canyon is wonderful but not as impressive as others we saw later in our Jasper - Banff trip
Everywhere in Jasper is a beautiful sight. The canyon is a wonderful way to see nature's path over many years. Worth the stop.
"The canyon is beautiful and well worth the walk to all the bridges. The geology of this area is very interesting. And as a bonus, we saw a black bear on our drive there."
"We walked up to Maligne Canyon from the parking at sixth bridge. It was a nice, easy hike with nice view points lasting for about 2-3 hours for the round trip."
"We have never seen anything like this. This natural attraction is set up so you can do a short easy walk or a longer slightly harder walk. Set your own pace. We wanted to do do the short walk because of time and found ourselves doing nearly the whole thing. The rock formations and surrounding areas are spectacular, drawing you farther down the trail to see more. It is definitely worth the drive just outside of Jasper."
Very popular spectacular canyons with varying degrees of ease of access. Informative boards. Interesting rock formations and very narrow gullies carved out by the rushing water over thousands of years.
"It's deep VERY deep and the water comes underground from Malign Lake, an interesting experience. At least cross the two top bridges we walked over three and then drove to the no six. A very interesting place."
"An interesting slash in the earth which is worth a visit if time is not the issue but FIRST comes a visit to Spirit Island, 2nd Edith Cavell Trail and then take in these others things"
"We have walked this canyon over the years and it is beautiful.
This time we are in our 70's and we found it a little difficult.
if you have good knees and backs go for it."
"This is a spectacular hike that doesn't take that long to see it all (1.5 hrs to 2 hrs round trip) or you can do a portion of the trip and still leave very satisfied! This isn't a far drive from downtown Jasper and trust me it is a must see - you will be glad you went! Make sure you dress for the weather, it can get a little brisk near the canyon from the moisture."
"It was absolutely worth to go, very pretty and amaze, we have hiked from Bridge 1 to 5, took many beautiful pictures,"
"It's a geological feature worth seeing, but because it's so close to Jasper and on the tourist trail it attracts all the coaches. Go there first or last thing or risk having the experience ruined by hoards of people."
"We started up the canyon from the fifth bridge. The first section of trail was narrow. If it was wet, this section would have been very slippery. After able 100-metres the trail improved and was good the rest of the way to the top. What a contrast between the fast flowing creek at the start and the torrent of water being forced through the narrow steep gorge as we moved upstream. Once at the top, we took some time to check out the Tea House Gift Shop and get a souvenir. For the return trip, we chose the ""outside"" path that followed the ridge line, well back from the creek. This was a good choice because it provided stunning views of the whole Jasper Valley. We could look down on the Jasper Park Lodge as well as seeing the Town of Jasper from this vantage point. We continued down past our original start to the sixth bridge before retracing the last 2-km back to the fifth bridge. Total round trip, including stop at Tea House was just over 3-hours. A very good walk with amazing scenery."
Short drive from Jasper. Gorge is a short distance from the parking lot. There are excellent spots to view the gorge from above at multiple points along the gorge. Locals told me that during the winter you can actually go down into the gorge when the water freezes. Also was told by a tour operator that they frequently see bears on the road to the canyon.
"We were fortunate to be able to visit Maligne Canyon on the day that it reopened after the forest fires in Jasper National Park. It was a long, slow drive for us and we spent a good couple of hours wandering up and down Maligne Canyon. We compared it to many slot canyons that we've visited in the SW U.S. The nice difference was all of the wonderful blue water flowing through it!"
"Judging by the size of the parking lot this place must get busy, but we got there early and out of season. It is a remarkable slot canyon, really deep and full of the sound of rushing water. I strongly recommend walking down as far as the Fourth Bridge, but the Fifth bridge may literally be a ""bridge too far"""
"This canyon features phenomenal views along the Yellowhead Highway and Athabasca River, which flows from the titular glacier and spectacular waterfalls sharing the name. Ringed by towering snow-capped mountaintops, the valley is carpeted with forests. Crystal lakes connect to the river like gems on a necklace. Absolutely breathtaking! My only regret about visiting this “grand canyon” is viewing it through windows of our tour group’s motor coach. Oh well, something for the bucket list?"
"Great walks and amazing views of the canyon, hard to believe fromthe approach it's so deep. Well worth the walk around."
"We travelled through the Rockies and loved Jasper so much we stayed an extra day and night. Our son drove those iconic red and white buses and was a tour guide on the Athabasca Glacier, so we had to visit there. We were treated like royalty and really looked after. We were later taken to our son's favourite waterfall and soaked up the region with local knoweldge."
"An easy drive from Jasper, this canyon is spectacular to walk along. Full of waterfalls along its length. A most enjoyable walk."
"Excellent visit and walk. Nature is truly beautiful.
Bought some nice souveniers from the nice gift shop.
One of the many beautiful places to visit in Canada."
"this canyon can be visited from the top (first bridge) or from the bottom (fifth bridge), go to the fifth bridge parking lot, start to climb from there in the canyon path and go back down on the rear path (7F)"
"Such a beautiful place and worth the hike if you have the time. There is a short walk down to the main part of the canyon, but don't stop there!"
"My husband and I, with 51 other seniors were touring the Canadian Rockies and this was one of our stops. We loved Maligne Lake and took lots of beautiful pictures. My husband stayed behind to take more pics and I proceeded with the others attempting to hike the trail. I didn't finish but got lots of fabulous pictures. It was uphill coming back and I was a little confused to exactly where our motorcoach was parked. You couldn't see the parking lot but some helpful visitors pointed the way. It was worthwhile and didn't take very long. It was peaceful. Okay for seniors to do!"
"The canyon is impressive, the river beautiful but the trail is crowded around bridge 1 and 2. we parked at bridge 6 to be certain of having a parking spot."
"This is an excellent hiking excursion near Jasper. We walked from the first bridge all the way back to the flower loop after the 6th bridge. The canyon scene is so beautiful, and so many little unseen before flowers along the trail. The flower loop got more colorful and usual flowers. Remember to visit the Tea House, the food is good, the price is very reasonable."
"if you like rivers, waterfalls and canyons, then do not miss this...if you're feeling energetic you can walk for miles but remember you have to come back :-)"
"This was definitely well worth it. Fabulous scenery. This place is probably very popular and busy during the height of the tourist season. We were there in September and there were still quite a few people on the trail. We walked all the way down to the 6th bridge. Which made for a nice hike but probably should have turned back at the 5th bridge. Going back is all uphill which might be difficult for some people with mobility issues. But if you are traveling with others you could do a car shuttle and have one car parked in the parking lot at the 5th bridge. We wanted to take a different trail back to the parking lot and were a little confused by the trail signage, finally figured it out and it was a nice hike back with no one else on that trail."
"A very long drop to the water. Just shows how long it has been here, as the rocks are volcanic, and very hard."
"We went during a rainy day - was slippery a little bit, but with a good pair of boot that was perfect. The canyon is stunning. Never see a canyon like this one. Love all the trails going down. Not to difficult. Took us 2 hours up and down. Calm and peaceful, no crowd - was rainy day. Say many birds, butterflies, fish. We had our lunch on the river. Could bring dog with you on leash."
"Took an one hour hiking in Maligne Canyon when we heading to Maligne lake. The view is average, but the hiking trail is nice and easy."
"This place is short distant from Jasper. I went with a group and and throughly enjoyed this magnificent Canyon.
View from the first bridge is awesome.
Allow plenty of time and just seat back and take plenty of photos."
"Almost did not do this canyon as we did not perceive that it would be so unusual and inspiring. Allow enough time for stops on bridges 1-4, and multiple other viewing spots. The river is turbulent as it forces its way through this canyon and has formed walls that are unique. There are multiple springs and falls in the canyon walls that come from underground system that drains from a lake with no apparent outlet. Would recommend starting at the Tea House, rather than from the 5th or 6th bridge. We were hesitant to eat at the Tea House, but decided to eat there and were satisfied with their food."
We stopped here and just did the short walk from parking lot to the tea house and were blown away by the beauty. We had also been up to the lake and if we went again we would just do a longer walk in the canyon and not even go up to the lake.
"short walk to first bridges with great views. easy access, wonderful views, good for anyone. kids can manage this walk"
"This was an incredible drive, probably the most spectacular in a park that is quite spectacular. Lots of side walks to take and I recommend the boat ride at the end. Be prepared, it is pricey ($67 per person when we were there) but so worth it. The view at the end of the lake is jaw-dropping."
you will never see nothing like this again. after you have been at the Icefields you can see how it all flows from there and for many miles before reaching this most interesting spot. the color is beautiful and truly a place for photos.
"My oldest son, husband and I hiked the canyon here our first day in Jasper. We started at the bottom and hiked all lthe way to the top, stopping at every viewpoint. Starting at the bottom of the gorge it's flat and foresty, then it slowly becomes more rocky and a climb. There are a lot of steps and slopes, but take your time and you should be able to do the whole walk. There are a lot of reviews saying just to do part of the hike, hitting a few bridges, but if you're there and able, it's nice to do the whole hike. The day we were there it was dry, but if it has rained, it will be slippery, so be sure to wear suitable sticky-soled hiking shoes and go slow. It took us maybe three hours or so to do the round-trip hike, so plan a half a day."
Truly a must experience when visiting Jasper!A beautiful drive on maligne lake road free parking at the Canyon restaurant lot.Easy stroll over the first 2 bridges with great views of the cascading waters.There are a total of 6 bridges bit of a hike to do it all so consider your time and ability.The rock formations and chasms are absolutely stunning
Easy and well developed trails. This is a good exercise and hike for all ages. Very popular place with lots of tourists. The views are amazing and breathtaking.
Everything in the Rockies is stunning. Take your camera and see and photograph as much as you can. Worth going to.
"Thie falls are a must see on a few travellers lists as the place was busy when we arrived and a steady stream of people kept coming and going. But it was never too crazy that you couldn't get a few great pictures. Our two kids could have done without it, but glad we stopped and checked it off our bucket list."
This is a beautiful canyon with a roaring river. Be careful going down though since you will need to walk back up again.
This canyon is amazing and not to be missed. On arriving at the canyon you will see that there are a number of trails that you can do around the canyon. If you are short for time do the shortest trail as you will still get to see the best of the canyon.
Fantastic scenery and walking trails alongside the Canyon. Could have spent the whole day here. A must see.
"This is a toristic spot so is easy to walk around. I suggest you to do the way round, these means start from the end, as we did with our guide."
"Maligne Canyon is one of my favorite walks in Jasper. The sights and sounds are spectacular. If you love taking pictures of nature, this is the place to be.If you go in winter take a guided tour that you can book in town. You won't be sorry!Be aware that the walking is fairly steep at times, so good shoes are important."
We stopped at Maligne Canyon after spending the morning at Maligne Lake and taking the boat to Spirit Island. The canyon walk was a nice place to stretch your legs and walk either a long distance or a shorter one. You had the choice of varying lengths.
Great place to spend a few hours if you can. Canyon itself very impressive but some excellent walks around the canyon too. All for free
Maligne Canyon was well worth a look. There's a nice walk; with bridges giving a great view of this slot canyon. Good gift shop at the end.
This is a beautiful place and you can go as short or long of a walk (hike) as you want. It's fairly accessible to most people.
"Remember you will climb back as far as you walk down, unless you have a volunteer to drive down to pick you up at the exit. About 300 to 500 meters is enough for a very good view and experience. Quite a deep gorge with foot bridges over at intervals."
This was very dramatic and we were lucky to see a birds nest tucked into the walls of the canyon. The water has made amazing canyons and deep holes and its well worth the short detour off the main road to see
One becomes blase with all the sights available in the Rockies but Maligne Canyon is another well worth the deour. It is also enroute to Spirit Lake so you get two for one.It is a spectacular sight and if anything the drop to follow the Canyon downstream had to be made up by the climb back up to the car.
This is a great area for photos. Road runs to Maligne lake. Passing Ghost lake an area damaged by large forest fires.
"You'll enjoy your walk through the area, but the crowds can be overwhelming. My suggestion would be to arrive early or late in the day to avoid the tour bus crowd. This is a beautiful place."
There are a few different hikes here.You only have to hike a few hundred feet to see the beautiful Maligne Canyon. The only problem is you can't help but keep going! It's absolutely beautiful! We hiked for longer than we expected. Be sure to bring your water bottle.
"well worth a look,you can see the amazing power of nature and water over the years.the further you walk the less crowded it is so well worth a few minutes walk to escape the coach crowds!!."
Words can't describe it. Stunning. Get a geologic book on the Canadian Rockies for a good understanding on the rocks and geologic processes that formed the canyon.
"Natural wonder, that if you can stand the crowds is well worth a visit. The further down the trial you go the less people there are so its worth walking the higher route back"
"Because of a forest fire near Maligne Lake, both the Lake and the Canyon were closed to visitors during our week in Jasper. But on our last full day, the Park Service opened the Canyon to visitors. Yeah! After parking along the road (there were many, many vehicles there the day we hiked the canyon), we headed to the trails down into the Canyon. The Canyon is the deepest one in the Rockies (about 180 feet). And incredibly narrow in spots, about 6 feet across. If you want to see, hear, and experience gushing, pounding water at the bottom of an awesome gorge, this is the place to be. Fed by streams and waterfalls and serving as the underground receiver of Medicine Lake's water, through subterranean tunnels (very unusual), what starts off as a good flow turns into a veritable surge of tumultuous, churning, crashing water over and down to the Canyon bottom. The steep riverside trail has guardrails and fencing close to the water the entire hike down; and there are places where you can stand and be right over the water. You will hike across 6 bridges that cross the gorge, giving you great views up and down the terrain. The canyon walls rise overhead, towering over you as you descend. We were fascinated by some of the rock formations, the layers of limestone, the till, the shale-like shapes, the shear walls, the trees that tower over the walls, the places where the more water comes pounding into the deluge of the stream, the seemingly endless waterfalls of all shapes and sizes. It is breath-taking! Along the trail, there are interpretative signs that add to your appreciation of the geology, the fauna and flora of this beautiful spot. We hiked down to the fifth bridge, had lunch, then headed back up the trail, seeing things we missed on our way down. Back at the parking lot, there is a tea house/café and gift shop, and plenty of pit toilets. Hiking the Canyon is a wonderful way to spend a morning or afternoon in Jasper National Park."
"Well worth the stop to see. The river has cut an amazingly narrow, deep canyon through the rock..we saw in September with a low water level, but it was still impressive."
"On a foggy and light rain day we tried Maligne Canyon. Perfect because you look down, not up. The canyon has many waterfalls and is up to 170 feet deep and as narrow as 6-8 feet. The Fifth Bridge apparently washed out last year, but has been replaced with a sturdy new cable stayed bridge. The trail between the upper parking and Fifth Bridge is about 3.5 km. You should consider parking at Fifth Bridge and walking up to the upper end when you are fresh. Most people start at the upper and walk uphill at the end. For a shorter hike, start at the upper parking lot and go for fewer bridges and return."
A beautiful hike along the canyon - this should definitely top your list in Jasper. The hike is flat and not physically demanding. Great views of the mountains and the canyon.
"A trip to the Canadian Rockies should be on the top of everyone's list. Maligne Canyon is just one of the many reasons your trip will be unforgettable.
Parking is a problem during the high season. Visit as early in the morning as possible."
We had a very fun time at Maligne Canyon. We took it as part of the Maligne Lake Tour and it was really worth it.
"Beautiful canyon, but not any more spectacular than the ones along the Icefields Parkway (in Summer). I f you're less fit, take walking path 7f down and come back up on walking path 7, that's much easier. Wear proper footwear, it can get really muddy and slippery here."
"I come back here overtime I visit the Rockies, fabulous trails, views, easy walking, don't forget to bring some water :)"
"Sometimes you just have to stand in awe at the beauty and majesty nature can create. Maligne Canyon is one of those places. Took many photos, but none will truly capture this exceptional place - still you'll have your memories..."
"If it was just me, I would prefer this attraction over Athabasca Falls. However, with a 4 year old son in tow, I preferred Athabasca Falls. He could do most of that on his own. For Maligne Canyon, he wanted to keep going and going.... but on the way back, its all uphill, so poor hubby had to carry him back the whole way!There are many different path choices here, and its confusing where to go. I almost got lost, onto a different path, on our way back (and I am an experienced hiker!). It wouldn't really matter if you were ""lost"", there are tons of people here, and I am sure my path diversion led back to the main starting point. But still, a bit confusing. A lot of people were going ""off path"" and I could see a few in precarious positions on the canyon rock. Not advised!! There is no going back if you slip and fall down, people! I was surprised it wasn't cordoned off better, or fenced off, so people could not do that. In one area, close to the river, people opened up a section of the gate, and crawled through so they could walk down to the river. Again, its fine if you don't get hurt but a lot of trouble if you don't know exactly what you are doing. I would like to come back again, and explore more.... when my son is a little older and can hike better!"
"Great hike. Some steep and slippery spots but worth the effort. We took a different route back to the 5th bridge parking lot (#11). It was route ""h"" I believe. It was very steep incline then you walk along the top of a ridge and back down to parking lot. Saved walking back the main route as it was getting busy."
"The canyon is fine; it is deep and worth a stop. Unfortunately, even in September, the most accessible parts are a favorite with tour buses, which drop their passengers at one end of the tour route, and pick them up at the large on-site gift shop at the other end. The gift shop is filled with expensive objects made of lucite, which was rather a turn-off for us. It reminded us of tourist cave trips we've taken in the eastern US that deliver visitors back to a gift shop when the ascending elevator doors open."
Gorgeous work of nature. The scenery is tooooo good! must see. It is too gorgeous! Absolutely stunning. at least 2 hours at this location to see the upper and lower ends.
I've walked this canyon a number of times at different times of the year and always enjoy it. We had a rain day on our last trip so decided to walk the canyon that day instead of a less protected walk and we really enjoyed it. I've also walked it in the early spring when the melt was just starting which was enjoyable. I'd like to try it in the winter when I can go into the canyon.
We cycled from Jasper and it is quite a long steady climb up. Great views but avoid the restaurant. We had the worst wrap ever.
This was our first hike in Jasper and we weren't disappointed. Trail is well marked and every bridge is more scenic than the next. We hiked to the bottom and than came up along the ridge. The view of Jasper Valley is beautiful.
"Definitely worth stopping for a look if you are driving past. Bit of a walk down, it's the way back that may prove a bit arduous for the less than fit! You don't have to walk the entire trail down to get a nice view, to the bridge, a couple of hundred metres along the trail is good enough. Sad to see all the tissues and cigarette packets littering the ground though...along with the heavily graffitied benches....shame people, shame"
"An excellent experience. Beware if you are dodgy with heights as it's a long way down. And if you take the path down to one of the lower bridges, remember you have to climb up again. But this is a must-visit place in the Jasper area. And it has the best gift shop - and the most reasonably priced we've bern to."
"This was our first attraction in Jasper, as we came from Hinton.
The walk is nice and we enjoyed a nice hour there"
Was a wonderful experience enjoyed by all of us on the trip. The bus driver was very experienced and kept us all involved and amused.
"Walked this in summer for this first time. If you have the chance, walk it in winter instead. The ice makes it a magical walk."
Lots of options for short or long hikes with numerous bridges crossing this geologically amazing canyon and waterfalls. Close to the town of Jasper...about 20 minutes away.
"The lake is spectacular and the cruise is worth every cent spent on it, very informative narration by the crew and it stops at a small point about three quarters of way in the lake. The scenery around the lake is wonderful and there are many places to walk and camp there."
"I've hiked around many canyons and waterfalls, but this was out of the ordinary with its narrow but very steep, deep gouges in the rock. My traveling companion and I agreed we had never seen anything like it."
I was on a bus tour so not much time to explore this marvel of nature so if you have the time take a wonder and explore the lower levels and go for a trail hike
"Beautiful walk through an incredible water carved canyon. Not wheelchair friendly at all with a lot of stairs, and steep climbing. Bear in mind that if you are going down the trail, you gotta go back up sometime, lol. I made it only as far as half way down to Bridge 5. Stunning views. Bring a camera."
This Canyon truly is a testament to the force of Mother Nature. The view on the canyon from the bridges is breath taking. You only have to take a short hike from the parking lot to see all this beauty for yourself.
"A must see when you are in the Jasper National Park. Huge cavities have been eroded in the limestone rocks from thousands of years of pounding from the glacial meltwater.Concrete walkways are rather ugly but thank goodness someone built them so that we can all enjoy this natural wonder. Oh, and it is free."
Very beautiful & Parks Canada has done a great job with the paths. A must see stop while in Jasper National Park. Go early in the morning to beat crowds.
Nice short hike with clear marks. Good views over the river. Take the walk through the bush towards the river. That way you keep the best for last
"I read a lot of the reviews about Maligne canyon and finally decided to park at the 5th bridge parking lot and walked up to the first bridge. I can’t say it’s the best approach. If you park at the main parking lot and start from the first bridge, there are some climbs on your way back, it might be a little difficult for people who are used to take the tour bus then walk 100 feet to the viewpoints. If you enjoy hiking, this would be an easy one for you. The canyon is seen at the first three bridges and they are pretty close to one other. It’s all river scenes after the 4th bridge. The water in the river is very clear and nice to see, but you can see that in a lot of rivers, and not necessarily here. Definitely walk through the first three bridges and up to the 4th bridge at most."
"We walked along the pathway to look over the top and down into the canyon. In the winter, I believe you can walk along the frozen trail, but be sure to wear a helmet and good shoes or boots with crampons to prevent slipping."
"We loved this hike. For non-hikers, just park at the first bridge and walk/hike the canyon side trail until the fourth bridge. For the more adventurous, go to 5th bridge and then head up the canyon for a nice lookout as you are heading back the way you came. The rock formations, potholes and water itself is stunning!"
Yes loved this. Worth seeing all the bridges. Brilliant to see the force of the water carving the rock.
"Great day. The scenery was picture perfect and the guide (whose name was Fred) really knew his stuff about the area and its history, geography, and wildlife.It was very interesting to learn how the canyon was formed from water being drained from the bottom of Medicine lake through holes in the limestone and then resurfacing to form and carve out the Maligne canyon."
"Thought I would have seen more than elk here, but I guess I didn't come at the right time. The canyon and the water are very pretty."
Another amazing place to visit and do a trail walk. All trails are very well fenced and easily accessed.
Great place to see how the the water has eroded the gourges over 100s of years! All the falls are so beautiful as well! And don't forget to visit the gift store and Cafe!
"This is one of the best stops in Jasper Park. Whether you take the short or the long trail, the canyon is worth seeing. We like to go back after dinner to walk the canyon when the crowds of the day have diminished."
"we never have done this hike before and it was very beautiful. My only complaint, too crowded, but to be expected."
"It's a 15 minutes drive from downtown Jasper.There's a lot of people at the beginning of the trail (blue trail on the map).We did the main trail along the canyon to the 5th bridge (red then brown trail on the map) and the view is gorgeous. It's about an hour. There's less people after the 2nd bridge. Be careful the rocks are slippery. After the 4th bridge, just continue, and don't worry you will get to the 5th bridge.Just to confirm the 5th bridge was open and in very good condition in mid-September 2015. We returned by the mountain through the forest (the big brown loop trail on the map) instead of coming back the same way we came. It's about an hour, and the first part is very steep."
Fascinating views of the river thundering through a series of waterfalls and slicing a thin trail through the rock. An easy pleasant walk through the trees to various view points. A good chance to stretch the legs and view nature at work at the same time
"I have visited this canyon many many times and this year we went in the spring and because they freeze, the water was running underneath, quiet and peaceful. They have really nice trails from top to bottom but due to flooding I believe the fifth bridge was closed, hope they get it fixed soon. Really fascinating to learn where the water comes from and the fact you can walk the bottom of the falls in the winter, an ice walk!"
"Visited as part of a tour, great sight to see and good photo opportunity and, although lovely to look at, doubt I would have visited unless it was part of the tour."
Another beautiful spot to enjoy the scenery. We have been here in the winter as well and walked the frozen river and viewed the frozen waterfalls. Amazingly beautiful
"Not far from Jasper, but well worth a visit, My wife and I visited all the attractions along the Maligne valley all the way up to the lake."
"Superb walking and views throughout, whatever the time of year. Lot's of trails from easy to slightly more strenuous. Easy free parking at the top end."
There are a series of bridges and falls so you can pick the distance you want to walk. It is amazing to see the power of the water carving it's way through the canyon. It is well worth the visit.
"Take the moderate level hike to view narrow, deep canyon and waterfalls. The trail is steep in places. Great photo ops."
"Maligne Canyon is a place of dramatic canyon views and powerful rushing waters. We visited on a cloudy day which turned out to be the best light for photographs. We walked from the main parking lot at the first bridge down through the canyon walkways just passed the fourth bridge. At that point, the canyon is becoming less deep, and the views are not as dramatic, so we turned and walked back. Maligne Canyon is one of the best attractions in the Jasper area -- one we would not have wanted to miss."
"Of all the beauty Jasper National Park has to offer, Maligne Canyon is one of the top must-sees. We ""hiked"" from bridge 3 with our 2 young kids. The trail is well maintained and the fence along the edge adds good security. The canyon view points along the way are stunning. We loved Maligne Canyon and are glad we made the time to view it. When the kids are older, we will certainly be doing the long hike."
Its a good walk covering all the bridges. Explore lots of nature's secrets. You have to see this alteast once.
"Probably my favorite site in Jasper. Wish we could have had more time to explore, but went to the first two bridges and got a pretty good overview. I could have spent all day here if there hadn't have been so many other things to see On our first trip to the area."
Our first Canyon walk in the Canadian Rockies and so glad we visited. It was a bit of a cloudy day so a walk where the views were mainly downwards was a perfect start…and by the time we were halfway the clouds had lifted and we were able to enjoy Maligne Lake and the wonderful Rocky Mountain vistas as well
"Don't bother with the lake, go straight to the canyon. Lake Louise is much prettier. We went to the lake late in the day, but not impressed. Maybe we had seen to many beautiful sights already."
"This sight has extended pathways that are NOT suited for anyone with marginal health. As you begin, the pathways are gently sloping downhill and they continue down; but the path does change and the upward slopes are a challenge and there are no ""short-cuts"" or signage offering an easier way out. One person in our group had trouble and there wasn't a park ranger or phone number to call-- potentially VERY DANGEROUS!!"
"Invigorating hike. Start at the Fifth Bridge and walk up to see as many as your legs will allow. Stop for a break and refreshment at the Tea House, and then stroll DOWN to you vehicle."
"Accompanied by Alicia from Fairmont tours we saw the impact of water movements over time, fossils in limestone and the habitat and activities of the local chipmunks and squirrels."
Very enjoyable walk above and around Maligne Canyon. Interesting to see how the evergreen trees will latch onto a small piece of ground on the canyon wall and grow tall and straight. Beautiful waterfalls.
"This is a very lovely area, with tons of wild life. We saw a couple of black bears walking along, mountain goats ( I think they were anyways), A couple of moose and caribou. This is a very beautiful area and the way the river has cut the rock is stunning"
Stopped at 3 points along the road to cross bridges over the canyon. Did stop in main area and do some of the walk up the canyon finishing with a cup of tea in the tea house. Beautiful canyon
The glacier melt has left its silt before entering the canyon. The crystal-clear water falls over rocks and deep into he canyon. Stunning. The five historic bridges allow for different views of this majestic canyon.
Part of our Jasper trip with our German relative was a trip to Maligne Canyon. We hadn't been there in a few years. The walk was beautiful and Luca got some amazing pictures of the canyon to take back to Germany. The weather was great too
"If you're ready to feel the burn, make sure you bring a water bottle and some running shoes. There are really interesting and beautiful areas of the canyons to be seen and enjoyed - but it takes some cardio to get to some of it. Whether you're with a buddy or with the whole family - it is free and the sights are great! Highly recommend. We come here pretty much every time we go to Jasper to take it all in."
i loved it. athabasca falls looks similar. its a quiet and beautiful stop off the main road...icefields pkwy i think
"Beautiful canyon, great hike that takes about an hour or more.
Bring along a camera, good shoes, and water."
"This is a wonderful place and probably my favourite spot in Jasper. You just have the chance to be outside and explore the nature as it is. Hiking around is the best way to explore it (I have been there in mid Spring, 2014) and watch the waterfalls dance. The view from the top of the hill is superb!"
Did the canyon and the boat trip on the lake. Enjoyed it all. The canyon was incredibly deep. The boat ride takes you to the end of the lake where the view is spectacular and very zen.
Great place to stop have a look around and have a picnic lunch. Not as busy as the lake and just as amazing as the lake.
"My wife and I stopped at the Maligne Canyon on a whim as we were on our way to Maligne Lake. What started out as a quick stop became an hour of taking pictures and walking to see the falls. The falls and the canyon can be seen for a hundred vantage points, each one different than the last. Clearly one of the better sites to see."
This was a enjoyable walk with beautiful scenery and not hot. Go early because this hike gets crowded. After returning to the parking lot there was a black bear just hanging out. Topped off a good day.
"Maligne canyon is another of Jaspers nearby spectacular attractions, a deep gorge carved out of the limestone over millions of years. To appreciate this awesome feature to its full requires a fair bit of leg work from the various starting points, but less abled people can still visit the most amazing bits from the top car park with less walking and ups and downs. I would say this is a must for everyone who loves natures wonders."
"We decided to do this walk as it was cloudy and wet day. The canyon is amazing. We started at 1st bridge, walked by the canyon down to 6th bridge and back up the same route (route 7). Delighted we made time to fit this into our visit to Jasper."
Visited here while in jasper. Free car parking and plenty of spaces. Great walk we did th3 red route which took about 2 hours.
"We had a cloudy, drizzly day but we're so glad we went. the drive is pretty and the boat ride to Spirit Island was enjoyable and scenic. Lunch at the cafe was good and the gift shop was nice. Disappointed that we couldn't hike around there but the weather wasn't good for that."
"Great to see and you can walk away from the crowds, towards the bridges. As the day was dull not too many people there."
I love water and waterfalls. We started at the sixth bridge and walked to the tea house. I loved this canyon!
"A beautiful canyon, incredible views and a great walk, even on a wet day. Well maintained interpretive trail. We walked up to the 6th bridge which included a forest walk. Well worth a visit."
"We started at the main parking lot for bridge 1, then stopped just before bridge 5 and took the route 7f back. It seems like taking the original path back (route 7) would've been really steep, so 7f was a little bit of a short cut and less strenuous."
"Five bridges go through the canyon.They let you see the beauty.Amazing falls,rocks,and potholes will keep you interested in the canyon located about 10 minutes from Jasper."
Well worth the short drive from Jasper. The falls are very dramatic and the water is crystal clear. There walking track is great from kids of all ages and takes approximately and hour to complete with lots of stopping to look at the falls and take photos. There are a lot of stairs and can get a bit slippery in the rain.
My husband and I stopped here on a bit of a whim on our recent trip to the Jasper area. What a great find and one of the highlights of our trip. Wear solid hiking shoes. Some steep inclines. We did the 1st to the 4th bridges as that was all that we had time for. Would go back for sure! We were there late afternoon and found the trails busy. Probably more enjoyable if you can avoid the peak crowd time during the day. Washrooms are located in the restaurant on the far side of the parking lot.
"Beautiful canyon hike! We hiked down onto the canyon with amazing views of the canyon with waterfalls and interesting rock structures. Then, we hiked back to the parking lot on the 7H trail. A different view and beautiful overlook!"
"The Malign Canyon a short distance from Jasper Canada is a very deep gorge with dashing water. A circular trip was reasonable for adults, seniors and children. An unusual natural feature."
"We enjoyed Maligne quite a bit. Only complaint is that it gets crowded with busses. Once you take the longer hike around the canyon, the crowds thin out. If you want to avoid the crowds, you can start the trail bridge 6 or bridge 5. We had a good time and it was a great beginning hike for the morning."
"Maligne Canyon is a must see !! Wear good shoes as the trails can be muddy or uneven. Bring a camera to capture the beauty of the water falls and canon its self. You can hike it or just walk a bit on some of the trails. It can be very busy in the summer, I would love to go back in the winter to get some great photos of the water falls frozen."
"Another one of the many plces in this region where tou don't need a degree in geology to marvel at what moving water and ice can accomplish. A great spot for photos, read the sign boards to really get the most out of your visit and understand how the canyon was formed and continues to evolve. It's a bit of a ateep walk from the car prk down and you will see one or two folks panting on the way back up but DO NOT WORRY pleanty of places to stop, get your breath and continue. Taken easily anyone can do the walk.The track is clear, well worn and signposted so you cannot get lost and it is easily accomplished in any pair of sturdy shoes. Flip-flops NOT advised.PLEASE NOTE : this is a popular spot with photographers who often set up long exposure shots of the tumbling waters. We know we are on holiday and often leave our brains at home but walking in front of the tripod-mounted cameras will not endear you to the locals!"
A very attractive and atmospheric canyon. Probably the best in the area. Good access to several parts with plenty of bridges to view the site well. The length of walk can be as short or as long as you wish.
"If you only have a short time to visit the canyon, drive to bridge 1 and do the short walk from there. If you have more time (2 hrs+) it is worth your while to park at bridge 5 (not as busy), walk up to the tea house/top, and then walk back to bridge 5. The more spectacular part of the canyon is up the top near bridge 1, but the lower part is still very pretty and nowhere near as crowded. If you do it this way you get the uphill part out of the way first, and you also stop a lot to sightsee, which breaks the uphill section up. Then it's an easy downhill stroll to get back to the car!Make sure you wear walking shoes because parts of the track can be wet and slippery."
Nice little walk to an amazing canyon. Not anything i expected even after looking at pictures. Worth the stop.
"The canyon is worth the climb down/up, might be a little challenging for the older ones but there are lots of rest areas and benches to sit on. Breath taking views, truly worth the visit!"
"In my view Maligne Canyon is a must hike in the Jasper area. Wonderful scenery and easy hike. If you feel you can't cover the whole thing, you have the option of covering the sixth bridge thru car."
We did this area in a day. Started at the bottom and worked our way to the top by car. Lovely teahouse that served cherry milkshakes. Easy to walk.
A must do. A special place. Take the cameras. Do the walks. Gushing water wearing away rocks into deep caverns.
"I like jasper area, wild animals, falls, canyons, lakes....so many place worth to visit again, I definitely will stay longer next time"
Incredibly fascinating geology! I would highly recommend this canyon with deep gorges cut in the rock by a fairly small stream. If you are interested in photography go early to avoid sun in the canyon and the crowds.
The Maligne Canyon is half way along the Maligne Roat on route to the lake. It is really lovely and worth a trip.
"This stop was well worth the trip. Pictures do not show the dramatic erosion of the rock, the power of the water, that you see in person. It was a fairly easy hike as the stops to look down were constant."
"A wonderful place to visit, just look up for the trail markers (little yellow, circular tabs affixed to trees) to stay on course. For those with mobility issues, a large part of the trail is wheelchair friendly. Try to get here before 10... it gets very busy."
"Loved the falls and the short trek. This place must be even better in Winter when the water turns in to Snow. We went in August when the water flow was strong and it was spectacular to see the falls,"
"I have been to the canyon three times (April, July, October) and found it absolutely spectacular in every season. Could not say which season was most interesting - probably April (= end of winter) when there were some frozen parts left over. I am planning to be back for a visit when it is completely frozen and you can actually walk at the bottom of the canyon.I will definitely not be back in summer - it was way to crowded in my opinion (like wide other areas of the park, just too many people).Just a headsup: The elevation drop from the first bridge all the way to the seventh bridge has to be considered - it helps when you are in good shape."
Definitely worth a hike (not too difficult) and lots of amazing photo ops - the teahouse and gift shop are not amazing but they aren'd bad either
Wild nature ahead. A great canyon and with 7 bridges ahead. A must visit when you are in jasper. 20 min drive from downtown.
This is not to be missed!! Several levels of walks that would suit everyone's abilities. Bring your cameras for outstanding photos.
"Be prepared to hike up and down some steep grades to view this magnificent crevice. There is a rather substantial waterfalls by bridge 1 which starts the walk. From there it's down the gorge, over a couple of other bridges for the wonderful views of the erosion and rock formations."
The canyon is beautiful. We were fortunate to have a naturalist take us around. She was very informative. The rock formations are beautiful to see. Enjoy!
"This review is based on our hike, entering at the 5th bridge.The walk was beautiful. We enjoyed a moderate hike to the tea house, and then fully downhill walk back to the vehicle. The return trip was an entirely different experience, with beautiful mountain views. There were people doing their hike the opposite way, and they seemed to be very physically taxed. I would not suggest this hike for anyone with small children or mobility issues. Free with entry to National Park."
On the tour bus route to Maligne lake and I felt it was a mere tick box with many badly behaved tourists. Quite a lot of ugly structures - concrete bridges - which are clearly needed to accommodate the numbers of tourists but jar with the natural beauty. I would rank this much lower than number 2 of the Jasper attractions.
We followed our guide books advise and started at the 6th bridge. We did a moderately strenuous hike up a mountain that looped us down to 2nd bridge (and the crowds). From there we walked up to first bridge and followed the river back to 6th. This was a great way to make it a loop and avoid the crowds at the top of the canyon. The Canyons in the Rockies are amazing. Definitely don't miss this!
"Beautiful hike, kids were very eager to check the T of the water, it is very easy hike and highly recommended."
"View very wide and high, even in a day without a very good visibility. I really recommend to walk down the main path when possible, you'll find such a pretty points with no other people around :-)"
Maligne Canyon was a beautiful moderate hike. The scenery was gorgeous. Definitely a must do while visiting Jasper National Park. Be sure to wear shoes with good gripAs parts of the trail can be muddy. Only downfall was the trail 7h we tried to take that was supposed to loop back to the parking lot. The trail was not marked and we reached a point where we were unsure if we were still on the trail so we had to back track. Otherwise a great experience.
This hike is excellent for people of any ability. The trail is well marked with several trails connecting. The falls are very interesting and the chasm unusual. Many visitors may not have seen anything like the walls of this canyon. We thoroughly enjoyed the experience.
"The glacial potholes carved out of the limestone walls and the numerous waterfalls are impressive, but don't expect to get great photos that truly show the perspective. Views from the bridges and walkways are all looking down and it is difficult to capture an image that conveys the attraction. It is best experienced."
"One of the highlights of Jasper National Park. Simply gorgeous!! Moderate hiking well worth the entire trip. We started at bridge 6, and went all the way to the restaurant at bridge 1, and back. Enjoyed every minute of it."
"Many options here: you can hike for 1 hour or the entire day. The shortest trail starts from parking area next to Maligne Canyon Tea House. You can walk along the valley edge and enjoy geological structures. There is also a very beautiful small fall that spreads down over the rock and joins the river. It is on the other side of the river.There are many trails in the area, so make sure to come back to where you came from!If you continue Maligne Rd to the very end (which is Township Rd 452A), you will see Medicine Lake and then Maligne Lake which are nice places to have lunch. There are also many trails starting or ending to this road. If you liked the Maligne Canyon geological structures, I strongly recommend you to visit Mistaya Canyon if you drove back from Hwy 93. It few kms south of Saskatchewan River Crossing, about 158 km south of Jasper on Hwy 93 and all you need to do is a 5 min hiking! Worth to stop and see it."
"The canyon is good in summer or winter viewing, great place to ice climb. However my favorite part about Maligne is that it houses a collection of Norval Morriseau original artwork! Check out the pieces that are like $85,000!"
"Very nice canyon experience, but get ready to walk up and down some hills! Close to town and easy to get to. Beautiful river."
This glacial valley is one of the most beautiful sights in all of Canada. You can't miss it if you are headed to the beautiful Maligne Lake.
"Myself and my daughter have come here a few times, it's beautiful, need a little walking and a few ups and downs to walk . Again a little bit of hiking some endurance needed, or a bit of resting . Again it's free and beautiful."
We did the shorter trail at Maligne Canyon. It was nice and there were several bridges over the canyon. There are also some fossils in the path that you can try to find.
The Canyon is only a 15min drive from Jasper. The spectacular canyon starts at the 1st bridge and ends on the flat lands at bridge six. The canyon is very narrow and deep with many water falls. There is a good undulating track beside the canyon leading down to the siixth bridge. A vey lovely walk. Another approx half hour from the canyon is the Maligne Lookout.
"Went as part of tour, nice easy walk however rocks can be slippery so mind your feet, our tour guide was very good, other people were joining us to listen to his commentary"
It's a nice beautiful hike. I would recommend to walk upto bridge 4 and do the 5 & 6 by car. That way it is not strenuous.
"Only a brief visit and only 3 bridges crossed, but wish I could have stayed and done more.
Be careful on some of the rocks as some are uneven and slippery. Toilet facilities are basic (but better than a lot of festival toilets!)."
"My husband & I took off hiking thru the canyon. We thought we were making a circle, but found out we had to return the way we came in.... Our bus tour had to wait an additional 15 minutes for us as we were running to get back... Give yourself plenty of time to explore, or don't go too far down the trail! It truly is beautiful!"
Very worth going. The views are breath-taking. We saw three rafters going/rafting through the waters. Bring water and snacks
"Nice and special trail , especially the H7 is pretty challenging, we have to stop internet middle and took a rest, but the experience was excellent."
"We have a rule: the best trails are uphill FIRST, followed by downhill when you're tired. If you drive to the top, you're stuck with all the bus groups and have to go down first (and in this case it's almost ALL stairs - yuk!). But if you're hikers, park at 6th bridge instead, and go up! The views are great and you get to experience all those spots where water is just burbling up from springs, And after you're tired from the hike up (stay along the river when you get choices), you can have a more relaxing walk down. And for most of the way, except at the very top, you'll be alone."
"This is a deep (~100 ft in places), narrow (~6 ft in places) carved by the Maligne River through karst as it drains Maligne Lake. The trail starts in the parking lot and descends via a largely paved trail, with a series of bridges across the canyon. The walk is easy and well shaded, and the views of the watercourse, including some spectacular waterfalls, should not be missed."
Definitely start at the first bridge at the maligne canyon exit. It's spectacular and the 1-3 rd bridges are pretty close to each other. Lots of stairs but a fun hike!
Definitely worth the stop. A easy hike following the river and seeing the gorge that has been carved out over thousands of years. Beautiful
"Great walking paths, awesome gorge views, lots of hiking paths to explore. Drive further up the road to Maligne Lake and take a boat cruise, takes about an hour to get there but well worth it !"
This canyon is one of many that show the power of nature over time. Comparable to Johnston canyon on a smaller scale. Well worth the time.
Spectacular! This is a must see when visiting Jasper. A truly amazing site to visit and definitely worth the short hike to experience the entire canyon.
"Fabulous views, well worth the stop. My daughter was blown away by the waterfalls! Cool refreshing walk. Stop at the top of the gorge and do the first three bridges if you are short of time. If you have an hour walk down to the fifth bridge and have someone pick you up - this is the downward direction."
Very easy hike. Views from each bridge is great. Plan to spend at least 30 to 45 minutes. Good for kids also.
"One of the great hiking canyons. Always a bit crowded, especially at the upper canyon, but the endless series of waterfalls are truly amazing and unforgettable. It is often easier to part by the fifth or sixth bridge turnouts and walk up the canyon, as opposed to parking at the upper canyon which is loaded with cars and buses, and doing the descent."
Nice easy hike. Great if short on time. Easy access and easy to adjust length of hike from short to long. Expect crowds if visiting during peak season.
"Very busy. Be prepared for a good climb back up. 3rd bridge had the coolest temperature. Glad we climbed back up after that, as 4th bridge is a long way away, and we would not have made 5th bridge before dark due to our late start. Recommend good footwear, as the rocks are smooth and slipper from 1000's of people walking on them up and down the trail. Hold on the your possessions when you look down- we a hat, and a scarf, that people had lost."
"Nice area. Canyon is neat. I'm sure this place can get crowded at certain times. Still, it'd be worth a stop on your way in or out of maligne lake area."
More water and more falls. Plenty of such in Canada. But nice to see and hear the history of. Believe the canyon is walked when frozen over.
We went from the fifth bridge for a simply stunning walk. Took us much longer than anticipated due to stopping to drink in all the views and take photos. I definitely want to go back and see it in all it's glory of the different seasons. We took 7H back to the parking lot and it had more spectacular mountain and valley views and would highly recommend it.
"Beautiful easy walk from 6th bridge up the canyon to the top. Footpaths well maintained.
Definitely worth a visit"
We did a pleasant hike at Maligne Canyon. Great place for taking pictures. We stopped at the tea house on our way back. Highly recommend.
I can't say enough about this wonderful trek. It was awe inspiring. Would recommend to all friends and family.
Had a lovely easy going loop walk at Maligne Canyon. The canyon itself was pretty. A nice place for a stroll in the National Park.
"3.5 if possible.It's actually not that near to the lake, though it is of the same water source.Worth a visit, but again it is not exceedingly stunning or attractive. Something typically beautiful you would expect in Jasper.It is a very deep and narrow canyon with a nice temperature. However, due to it being narrow, it can be hard to get a nice photo."
"We enjoyed this hike and accidentally ended up doing it the way I would recommend. We started at the bottom (5th bridge exit) instead of the top. This meant that we did the harder portion of the hike (going uphill) and then turned around to do the easier hike down. This also meant that we had the ""Tea House"" available as a break at the half way point instead of at the beginning and end. There is certainly less parking at the 5th Bridge, and if this becomes too popular that could be a problem.I think the hike took around 2.5 hours or so."
"One has to see this place to believe it, a must for any traveller, make sure you leave enough time to absorb the views"
"We did this walk (not really a hike since there are handrails and lost of steps on a paved walkway) early in the morning and almost immediately ran into a black bear that wondered onto the walkways. Silly tourists were walking towards it, nearly chasing it into the area where we were. After that excitement, we had a lovely walk from the 2nd bridge to the 5th. We took lots of pictures and really enjoyed it. From what I read, the hike is better from the 6th to the 1st, which is the opposite of what we did."
We travelled here for the first time in many years. We were able to take a lot of very nice pics. We got there early to beat the tour buses.
"Beautiful canyon and falls. We only went as far as the second bridge, which is the deepest spot in the canyon. I would have liked to spend a little more time, but we were on a tour with a tight schedule. A very pretty and easy walk."
"Maligne canyon is a must if you are in Jasper, less than half an hour away!!Does have some steep parts down and obviously back up but our 8 and 10 yr old girls managed it. Good half a day can be spent here doing various trails and you won't be disappointed."
We really loved this stunning hike. We took trail two which they suggest would take approx 45 min to an hour to walk. We are very slow walkers and it was only a little over 30 mins. The falls and canyon are definitely worth the time. We enjoyed this way more the driving the half hour to maligne lake.
"Sublimely beautiful Canyon (really a gorge). Very easy to reach from the carpark. Delightful spot, with options for very very short, short, and longer walks. We visited at the end of the day, when it was quiet and quiet surreal."
"We were advised at the tourist information Center that we should visit Malign Canyon. We did and found it beautiful. We followed the water along the lower level of the canyon and saw waterfalls and rushing water and rocks carved over the years from the water. It received its name from the French word ""malign"" which means wicked or bad . In its yesteryear it was a wicked water crossing ! It is well worth the two hour visit."
"It was our first activity of tha day. We arrived at 8:30 before it was crowded. We made the error of starting at bridge 2. The canyon is spectacular. A lot of noise made by water, beautiful cascades, nice hiking not to toughWater comes from Medecine lake 16 km from there under the ground. You can see tunnel wher new water arrives1 hr to bridge 6 and way up afterStart with bridge 1, very spectacularYou can also park lower at bridge 6 and do the reverse"
"As an older woman, I chose the downhill hike but my knees still found it challenging at times! The views were spectacular, and our guide for the trip shared many interesting bits of information about the flora and fauna of the area. I would highly recommend putting this hike on your must-do list!"
"We went here on the recommendation of our rafting guide and we weren't disappointed. The canyon is amazing and the force of the water awe inspiring. The trails are in good condition.A point to note is that if you're going to walk one of the longer routes, get a map. We were up by the sixth bridge and there were a lost pair of ladies who looked ready to cry when they realised they'd gone to the wrong car park."
"Perfect hike for a family. We went all the way to the 5th bridge - and had a lovely rest on the bridge and walked the higher trail back (highly recommend this). Waterfalls, canyon, rapids. Bring water, good shoes, an a sense of adventure. A great way to spend the afternoon (note: parking was really tough especially with an RV - come early or late)..."
"This was a scenic stop, with a nice easy little trail. The views of the canyon are spectacular. The hike is well marked, but there are alot of stairs so where your hiking shoes. This is a good one for kids because its shorter, and not mucky. Not for strollers though - there are a lot of stairs. We've driven by this spot a number of times on trips to Japser, but am glad we made it this time."
"After parking, the group followed the trails through the canyon all the time hearing the rush of the water. The walk was very safe and the trail had guard rails over some of the deep gorges."
This is a spectacular walk with rushing waters through the gorge. Be careful though as the well worn stone grounds are v slippy (my little one slipped twice in her bottom!) Very easy walk with children.
"This is a 90 minute to several hours stop, Be sure to start at the trail adjacent to the tea shop rather than the one at the lower parking lot. Amazing show cutting deep vertical cliffs by the force of flowing water. Truly an enchanting stop that cen be done rain or shire."
"Roaring waterfalls, beautiful woods, clean air, makes you want to stay forever. Don't miss this when you visit Jasper. If you are on a tour, ask your guide to put it on your must visit list. You can spend as much or as little time as you wish but do not allow less than 2 hours to absorb the real experience."
"On our visit to Jasper, we were told the road to Maligne Lake had just reopened after a forest fire along Medicine Lake. A short drive in to the lake, there was a sign for the canyon. We didn't know anything of it before pulling in. It was terrific! You can hike down to the first bridge without too much trouble for all ages/abilities. There are then 4 other bridges to hike down to. These take much more work and wouldn't be suitable to tiny tots or people that can't go far walking. However, the hike back up was worth every step from the views of the canyon and all the waterfalls. You can even see water seeping up from the ground into the creek and a cascade of water coming out of the hillside rock. A beautiful place to take pictures! The top bridge area was pretty busy with tour bus people, but as you walked farther from the parking lot, the crowds thinned. We enjoyed this hike more than Maligne Lake."
This Canyon is unbelievable and the treasures at the tea house should not be missed. The walk is worth the effort.
Take the few minutes you need to get to the falls and walk around. Do go up to the bridge and take a shot of the rock that looks like a seal looking at the falls! Great photo opportunities!
"Nice easy walk around the canyon about 20-30 minutes, stay left. If you continue to the right it is a long hike around 2-3 hours. The gift shop is the best prices in Alberta. The art collection is worth the visit."
Well worth the stop! Don't want to say much more so as to not spoil for others. But I was certainly amazed. Makes one ponder the earth's abilities and how things must have looked hundreds of years ago.
The Canyon is beautiful but very crowded just before the canyon there's an unmarked look out which gives you an incredible Vista of the entire valley and is usually pretty quiet great place for a wedding
Really worth the hike to see all the bridges. The first 4 are the most amazing. It can be busy but still worth it. We also saw an awesome bull elk in the parking lot with its velvet coming off its hirns
"We walked to the fifth bridge and got an excellent view of canyon sights. It wasn't too bad of a walk either. Not as spectacular in my opinion as Athabasca Falls, but very beautiful"
The view of the canyon at the top of the trail is stunning. There are many boards which give you information on the canyon. Do not rush the walk.
"A great place to spend a couple of hours hiking. You can either park by bridges 6 or 5 and hike towards brides 1 and 2 and back, but most people park by bridges 1 and 2 and hike either to bridge 4 and back which is fairly short, or go for a longer hike and go to bridges 5 or 6. Lots of nice waterfalls to see. The path is well maintained and a great place to see."
"Drove to Maligne Lake and hiked along the lakes - saw Caribou, enjoyed some tea at the lodge, stopped at various places along the road - watched the human wildlife watching the animal wildlife! Great photo ops with the intermittent rain!"
"Some pretty deep canyons with water flowing through. First few bridges are a pretty easy walk. The others are further away. IMHO, Johnston & Marble canyons are more worthwhile."
"Free and fabulous! Beautiful walk, lovely maintained trails, stunning scenery, breathtaking, yes, again and again! Can choose your length of walk too."
We took an organised day trip to the Maligne Canyon with Brewster - an informative and enjoyable day out in a beautiful and rugged spot.
The Maligne lake and Maligne canyon are beautiful for fishing and for hiking. Easy trails through the wooded area. We finally saw wildlife.
"Interesting, but for us not so interesting as we have similar places in our country,.. Better park the car at bridge number 5 as the parking space there is less crowded than at number 1. Then walk around the canyon to see all of them (it should take about 1 hour to see them)"
"A nice walk, we stopped in after visiting Maligne Lake. A great little walk/hike. Very busy though, and the restaurant/tourist shop closed way too early in the day. At 5pm?! But some beautiful scenery."
"The Canyon experence was a better than expected expected. It extends for some 6 bridges; the first 3 are relatively easy to manage, thereafter it is a downward walk on a trail that is narrow at times - this of course means an upward journey on the way back :-) We walked for 2 1/2 hours taking in some great views of the Canyon and one beautiful lace-looking waterfall! Overall pretty stunning. A must do if you are in the area even if you have only a short period of time to do a small part of the canyon.Enjoy!"
Good walk and good sight to see not far from Jasper but be prepared for the crowds. .the closer to jasper the more crowded they are.
The canyon is a must see when in Jasper. The first 3 bridges are easy and anyone can walk them (I even saw elderly people with canes). There are railings and paved trails and wooden stairs. Bridge 4 is a bit more challenging but only if you have mobility issues. Bridges 4-6 also aren't challenging but the trail is narrow and slippery so wear good shoes. The entire walk is about 3 hours but the first 3 bridges are where you see the most amazing parts of the canyon.
"we have been to Jasper many times but never took the time to drive to Maligne canyon. It is definitely worth the drive, Scenery is spectacular. There is a nice restaurant there Nice relaxing place to visit"
One of our favorite places to see in Jasper. We have done the ice walk in winter - incredible and surprisingly safe and easy.
"We parked at fifth bridge and walked up to the upper parking lot. Many beautiful views along the way up... Waterfall, river, canyon, bridges. Trail has lots of up and down on uneven surfaces.; would not recommend for anyone who has trouble walking any distance. There is a shorter loop from the upper parking lot for those who need it, but I would recommend doing the whole thing if you can. Came back down via the horse trail which was beautiful too with less up and down. Highly recommend stopping here."
This is just outside Jasper. We rented a car and drove to it on our own. Beautiful hike with waterfalls and really nice rock formations. Be sure to wear good shoes as rocks can get slippery when wet! There are multiple trails but the signs aren't great so it is sometimes confusing to know whoch trail you're on. Signs could be improved. No fee for this attraction but you have to pay for entry into the National Park.
"After taking a rafting trip the prior day, we decided to see the top of the falls. This is a great area to see some amazing scenery, without having to walk 10K to see it. Walk to as many different places as you are able, the view in each location is breathtaking and different. Nice stop, and only takes about an hour."
Excellent Canyon. The first four bridges trail is easy. Views are pretty. Worth to have a look. Have traffic from Maligne road to Hwy 16.
Well worth the trip. Stunningly beautiful and varied terrain. I love going around the end of May to try and catch the break up of the ice at Maligne Lake and the wildlife emerging from the winter dens.
"Very easy stop with easy access. A must do in the Jasper area. We only did the first three bridges, as they were the easiest (for my parents)."
Not a long walk from your car but amazing views into the deep canyon below. The water is a beautiful hue and there is a bridge that goes across the canyon itself. A trail winds around the side of the canyon for different views.
"This is an interesting place to visit. The canyon is very narrow and very deep. There are 5 bridges as the path winds back and forth over the canyon. Like most places, gets very busy between 10am and 6pm. Go early or late in the day to avoid crowds."
"Fascinating geography and beautiful scenery. The Maligne River has cut a very narrow and very deep canyon at the top of the hill which eventually broadens out to a wider and not as deep canyon at the bottom. Near the top, I estimate the narrow width to be 3 to 10 feet and the depth to be 100 feet.The water for the Maligne River appears to be multiple springs along its length, but actually comes from Medicine Lake via a series of underground caves and crevices. The water flow at the bottom is ten times that at the top because of these additional sources of water. There are three parallel trails from the Maligne Hostel (parking lot 11) near the start of the canyon to the bottom of the canyon. The trail closest to the canyon (trail #7) is for pedestrians only, the next trail (#7f) is for pedestrians and horses, and the third trail (#7h) is for pedestrians, horses, and mountain bikes. The pedestrian trail gets to use the six bridges across the canyon and river, named First Bridge through Sixth Bridge. These give you an outstanding view of the canyon and the river at the bottom of the canyon a six locations along its length.This is a moderately difficult trail a little over 2 km long (top to Fifth Bridge) with a significant drop in elevation. My wife dropped me off at the top in the parking lot for the hostel and restaurant, then picked me up in the parking lot near the Fifth Bridge.It was a great hike, and I'm glad I didn't need to climb back up the hill!"
"This hike is well-paved with safety fencing and leads to some gorgeous views. It is such a deep canyon, and the views are beautiful. We started at the 2nd bridge and walked to the 4th and back. We could have driven over to the 5th bridge, but were too tired. You can also drive to the 7th, hike a bit and go back."
Don't need to go further than 3rd bridge. If you do you will say at the end why did I go past 3rd bridge. Start at bridge 1 near the gift shop even if you park near track for bridge 2. The bridges get less impressive as you go. We walked to 5 th bridge and wondered why. As did some others. My recommendation is walk to 3rd bridge and you have seen the best. Go further and run the risk of kicking yourself for not stopping at bridge 3.
"So many beautiful and unique areas in the canyon, but if you return a different way than you head out, be sure to know how long the trip will be. We got lost and took a shortcut, which had areas that were almost straight up."
"The paths at the top of the Canyon get pretty crowded so you have to fight for a good position to view the canyon and waterfalls. The paths also get wet and slippery so you need to watch your step. You can view the upper reaches quite easily but it's a bit of a hike down if you want to reach the lower levels - and, of course, you then have to walk back uphill. The toilets in the car park are of the 'longdrop' variety but there are nice toilets you can use inside the gift shop cum restaurant."
Really nice walk down the canyon - we didn't have much time so we only went down to the 4th bridge but we'd love to go back and explore the rest of the trail. It was pretty busy while we were there and you need to watch your footing but the views were fab.
"Maligne Canyon is stunning in any season. It's a challenge in winter, but the frozen waterfalls are worth the work. In the summer, every level of the descent offers stunning views. Not to be missed."
"I was disappointed in this due to the crowds and all the steps and hills on the way back. My review might be tainted by our three teenagers who were not into hiking that day. It was pretty, but not as great as all the previous reviews.There are 6 bridges and we only made it to the 4th which was plenty for us."
"Wonderful hike in and around the Maligne Canyon that everyone in our group loved.We visited early in the morning (9am) which was perfect for two reasons: we beat the crowds and the lighting at this time of day created wonderful photographs. There are numerous stunning views as you watch the river enter the canyon and carve its way through the canyon. Info boards are helpful to explain the geology.Wear good footwear as there are lots of ups and downs. The path meanders up and down a bit, but overall down if you start at the main parking lot. There are a total of six bridges that serve as milestones. We went down to bridge 4 before turning around and the round trip took about 90 minutes. It seemed like the majority of visitors were doing the same. Bridges 5 and 6 have separate access points with small parking.It is somewhat strenuous, but several places to rest, and people of all ages and fitness levels were present.Go early to avoid crowds...parking lot was almost empty when we arrived, but was 2/3 full when we departed."
"Steep walk, but well worth it! Lots if great views and sites. Really nice at sun set. Really crowded from 11am-3pm. Enjoy and take your time."
"Definitely worth a visit to see stunning nature in action - cafe isn't dreadful either.Worth knowing ( we didn't) that you can park at the fifth bridge, hike up to the cafe at mid point then go back down again.There are slippy areas and steep bits on the trail so wear appropriate footwear."
"What an amazing place to see!!!! The whole family loved it! I love it is all gated and very safe, the hike would be very long no but doesn't have to be. I will definitely go again."
Worth a trip. Do bridge one to bridge five. Bridge six isnt worth the extra walk. Also use trail 7H on the way back as you get some great views (steep climb)
"My husband and I go to the canyon a few times through out the year, we walk it in the summer and always in the winter, winter time you get to walk on the canyon floor when it is frozen and it really is a site to behold, when down on the canyon floor you really do appreciate all that Mother Nature has created, it's makes you think about all the water that rushes down there in the spring and summer smoothing out huge rock formations, it really is a must to see, it's free and just a beautiful way to spend time away from the hustle and bustle with your partner, family or friends."
Worth the walk and the steps to the thundering canyon which goes thru a narrow crevice. Walk till the bottom to see the whole canyon
"We parked at the very bottom, hiked to the top and then returned. It became much more crowded the closer we got to the top. But it a great hike, fairly easy and you get very close to the canyon and the falls."
"We stopped here on the way to Maligne Lake, there was plenty of parking ( go early). Very scenic and nature at it's best, easy walking trail."
We got lucky and saw quite a bit of wildlife on our drive to this location. Late afternoon and twilight probably helped too.
"Take the backwards hike, and you will enjoy it more starting from the beginning of the huge water fall and following its descend, changing its shapes, colors, flow and environment. The trail is well maintained and easy."
"Maligne Canyon has a series of waterfalls, 30- 40 feet high inside a 60 foot deep canyon that is often so narrow that you could jump across it."
"The upper canyon is where most people focus on. The lower parts, between 6th Bridge and 4th bridge, are my favourite. Not as spectacular for water falls and such, but the lower area shows the lively, fast flowing and shimmery side of the river. And the scenery and paths are varied and less crowded."
"Multiple factors and sights to this attraction so close to the town of Jasper. The erosion of water, the water coming out of the rock wall, the height of drop at the canyon and if you go to the sixth bridge you will see the increase flow of river. This will demonstrate evidene of the large flow of the underground river. Imagine what the wall looks like in the winter when the seeping water from the wall freezes to form a large icicle that is used by ice climbers!!"
Great Ice canyon. Easy access although you do need to be reasonably steady on your feet as you climb through a barrier and walk on loose logs if the canyon floor isn't totally frozen. Beautiful ice formations and close to Jasper. A lovely afternoon out in Winter!
"This is a must see Canyon! Maligne Canyon is the deepest and the narrowest canyon in the Canadian Rockies. I recommend to leave a car near 5th Bridge, and go with anothe car to the parking lot (near the Teahouse), and walk down the canyon from 1st Bridge to the 5th Bridge (2.4 km), it's amazing!"
This hike took about 2 1/2 hours if you cross 2 of the bridges- some great valley views if you enter at 5th bridge. hardly need hiking poles on this one unless you choose 5 F as your way back- very steep incline.
What an incredible canyon and it just keeps going on and on. You hike down from the car park over a series of bridges. The views are amazing. Just remember you have to come back up and it is quite steep but well worth the walk.
"Take your walking shoes and a walking stick if you struggle to walk on uneven surfaces. The walk down hill is easy, be prepared for the walk back up. We loved it though and will do it again."
Lovely place to wander round across the various bridges and look down at the incredible water flowing down the canyon
"Walked a 8km trail around the maligne canyon, totally worth it. it was not a challenging walk by any means. breathtaking view by fifth bridge."
"Maligne Canyon is just gorgeous. The trail starts up at the parking area and descends into the canyon along a series of bridges, with breath-taking views of the canyon and waterfalls. Word of caution - don't be fooled by how easy it is on the way down! It's tempting to keep going and going, but coming back up is hard, especially on a hot day. We turned around after the 4th bridge, but it's possible to keep going. (It was also suggested to us to drive to the parking area for the 6th bridge and go up first in order to avoid the crowds.) Either way, it's definitely worth seeing!"
"The trick here is to go early in the morning around 7 AM and you will have little traffic, spectacular views, and wildlife near the roads. We saw two brown bears in separate areas foraging for food among the wildflowers. Better yet take a lunch and backpack one of the trails."
We viaited Maligne Canyon on a cloudy morning i July. Decided on the mwsium hike which took us to the fourth bridge. The scenery is jaw-dropping amazing! This is truly a must see in Jasper.
"There seems to be more publicity for Maligne Lake, but this is the place to be. And, it is much closer!"
"This canyon is a ""must see"" if you are in the Jasper area. This narrow and deep canyon has been cut by the water flowing from Maligne Lake leaving a rugged and twisting gorge that is beautiful and yet fairly accessible via a moderately easy trail. It is a very popular hike and understandably so because the terrain is moderately easy and the scenery is spectacular. Expect crowds and lots of cars and buses. If you park at the fifth bridge parking lot it may be less crowded than the main parking lot near the restaurant where all the tour buses load and unload. Even with it's popularity you will experience moments of awe and tranquility in this beautiful and amazing place."
"What a gorgeous canyon....I've hiked through slot canyons before but really never seen them from above, which is the way you'll view this one. The canyon is very deep and the view is astounding. As the water rushes through the narrow space, the sounds and colors are extremely dramatic but delicate wildflowers can be seen gracing the rim. Beautiful, beautiful place!"
Maligne Canyon was one of my favorite stops in the Jasper National Park area. The views are just beautiful and so peaceful. You'll pause and wonder about how time has carved it's face and how it will change through the years.
"There are six bridges to cross to see the entire canyon. The views of the waterfalls, canyon, rock formations, etc. are absolutely beautiful and to think that this was a work of nature is amazing. It is an easy walk but after the third bridge the trail becomes a little steep and slippery towards the fourth bridge. It is quite a hike thereafter to get to the fifth and sixth bridges according to the map on the trail. I turned around at the fourth bridge. It is something not to miss when you are in Jasper NP."
"The falls in the canyon were amazing, there were lots of different marked paths through the canyon, depending on how off the beaten track you wanted to go"
Beautiful falls. Gets crowded! Hike past the crowds at the top and you can get into some pretty country without so many people around!
"Loads if parking and well marked trails. As with Athabasca falls many people and especially busy in summer.
Need to take loads of water as hiking down in summer makes you thirsty quickly."
"Before you get to the trail you cross thee canyon on a bridge where you can see the cayon deep below. You walk the trail, lots of steps down to the next bridge. Sorrounded by pine trees. We saw two mountain goats, beautiful."
The deep canyons created by nature were amazing and the walk along the river was delightful. A great stop off to or from Lake Maligne.
The waterfalls here are not as spectacular as Athabasca and you have to walk down a fairly steep path to view the second falls but they are worth seeing.
Great to see this area and hear about the tectonic plates that created in. Always a good chance to see wildlife.
"We hiked this canyon in December, it is worth the icicles in your hair. it's a moderately easy trail, although ice on the pathways can be interesting. Possibly more stunning than in the summer."
"Maligne Canyon great scenery and falls. The walking paths up to a certain point are relatively easy to view the falls and canyon. Come early to avoid the crowds. Depending on your time, you can take a short hike on go further on a longer hike. Regardless always bring water on your hikes. Nice/friendly staff too at general gift store on site. One of the must see stops on the Maligne Canyon road."
"On a May long weekend a group of friends in our 20s, 3 dogs, and a 5 year old were camping in Jasper and decided to make a day trip maligne canyon and miette hot springs. We got to the canyon later in the day so parking was challenging, I highly suggest carpooling if you are going in a group. Once unloaded and at the mouth of the trailheD there were maps to show the varying lengths and difficulties of the area. We started on the basic trail which was wheelchair, scooter, and stroller friendly past the first bridge. On the descent the path got rough and many strollers were being abandoned to the side of the trail, we saw some tourists turn back at that point as well, most continued on down steep steps along the beautiful canyon with rushing water far below. Interpretive signs along the way offered great information on the surrounding area and advice on trail conditions ahead in some cases. Parts of the fence along the trail were in disrepair and many of the more adventurist tourists took that as an invitation to approach the water's edge. Though very brisk, a few of our furry friends enjoyed the quick splash and drink they got. Natural caves and potholes dotted the area and were great sources of imagination from the children and adults alike. Waterfalls provided great backdrops for group photos and a cooling shower to those who could handle the cold.Our group chose the harder trail once we hit the parking lot and outhouses at the 5th or 6th bridge. Comming back up that steep grade was a challenge and I ended up packing my daughter most of the way, but the view from the steep side of the canyon was breathtaking. We also got to watch some elk grazing and saw an eagle hunting during one of our resting points. By the time we hit the parking lot everyone was looking forward to the hot springs and food...or a nap haha."
"What a great hike. Whew. I think if I compare this one to Johnston, I preferred the beauty of Johnston Caverns, but this was great because it was less crowded and lovely scenery n"
"Maligne Canyon is a very beautiful place to explore. In the summer, spring and fall you can walk above the canyon and look down at the water falls and pools. In the winter try the Ice Walk with a guide and look at the cliffs and the natural ice structures from the riverbed."
"A wonderful hike up into the canyon and along the river. There is something about rushing water that is so impressive- you want to see more. This is a relatively flat hike- you'll start to hit crowds around bridge #3- so maybe get here early. A lot of the hike is in the shade too, which makes it nice in the summer."
Best to go when the waters are flowing fast. The river makes a great roar and is quite spectacular the walk is easy and quite enjoyable
"Wow pretty amazing nice walk great views of an amazing canyon, Good price free ( except park fee) go and visit well worth it."
We were so disappointed to find out that there was a fire here and that this was closed. We were planning on making this our first stop. There is not a lot posted anywhere about it being closed until you get to the park so I thought I would share the status here.I am sure it is a great place based on the photos I have seen.
"Though Maligne Lake was closed due to the fires, the canyon was still open and spectacular. Only a short ride out of Jasper"
"We did this at night as we went dogsledding in the afternoon,one word ""ace"",guide we had was brilliant,showed us mountain lion tracks which were fresh but didn't see one,would highly recommend it"
A nice stop with a short walk to the canyon. It's surprisingly deep and narrow. Then keep going up the road to Maligne Lake.
The drive to Maligne was very beautiful as was the lake. We saw a little black bear on the roadside which was fun to watch. We only wish we could have seen more wildlife.
"This is stunning from the mountains which surround it to the wonderful colours, you have to see this one."
"Maybe it was the time of year, but we weren't overly impressed with this canyon. We missed out on a few things because the roads were still closed due to ice, so assume the waterlevels weren't great yet. Maybe a different time of year it would be better."
Large parking lot so no problem getting parking. Trails are well keep and clear. Make sure you wear good shoes as it is steep in places. Really enjoyed the areas that were made to stand and take photos.
"A (mostly) easy hike on a mostly paved path. The falls are impressive, and the scenery is just magnificent."
"Maligne Lake and the boat tour are well worth your time. Our best photos, though, were of Medicine Lake on the drive out to Maligne. I'm still sort of stunned when I look at them. We saw the beginnings of a forest fire on our way back to town, and the fire go much worse in the coming days. I'm glad we say the best of the valley when we did."
"On our way to Maligne Lake, we so enjoyed the drive. As promised, the animals love this road. We saw two black bears, a momma and baby Moose, and many deer and Elk. Tne lake was beautiful, and the boat tour was so worth the time and money. It was some of the most beautiful scenery in the area."
"Located just east of Jasper, this canyon requires a Canada National Park pass to enter. There are 6 bridges that cross the river, with parking lots near bridge 1, 5 and 6. Most spectacular area is near bridge 3, so if you don't want to walk the whole length, park at furthest lot (near bridge 1), and walk down stream toward 3. Bridges 1 to 4 are relatively close to each other, while distance between 4 and 6 are much further.Between 1 and 3, it's steep, and canyon is narrow. You can't really get close to the river, but you can hear roar of the river. At bridge 3, you are probably closest to the rushing river. You can feel the spray of the falls, and it's nice on a hot summer day.After 4, the river gradually opens up, and it becomes more gentle. And between 5 and 6, you walk most of the way through woods, and it's an easy walk.I would say if you are short on time, just do bridges 1-3. If you have time, and energy, do the others."
"The canyon gives spectacular views of what nature does to rocks and water with the forest and animals adding their part. This site is only a few minutes drive from Jasper. There is a variety of trails - some wide paved, others climbing up and down amid the rock formations and forest. One can spend either 20 minutes or several hours taking in the sights. There is a visitors centre with food, gift shop and bathroom facilities. This is a great stop on the way to Medicine and Maligne Lake or an outing in its own for people of all ages and abilities."
"Well worth the time, but don't bother to walk both sides. Stick to the side that is closest to the canyon, the other side veers away form the canyon and isn't as interesting. Beware the large, shiny flat grey rocks at some lookout areas as they can be super slippery."
We enjoy the Maligne canyon best in the winter months as you can walk on the ice in the canyon. It is a stunning site under the frozen water fall.
"Loved the turbulent water rushing through the narrow rock walls!The trail through the canyon was not very long, but could have been better marked. We did not know whether it looped around or not."
"More lovely waterfalls. Large car park, national park standard washrooms at the start of a few different length trails- pick according to fitness level. Quite steep & uneven but definitely worth a look, even if just at the first one. You don't need to spend a long time here to see it. Lots of wildflowers & butterflies in the area."
En route we got close-ups of a mother bear with 2 cubs. we walked to the Falls taking the side path up to avoid the steps (quicker). The Inkpot is a much longer walk (3 hours return trip).
Interesting paths and bridges around the lip of the Canyon. Beautiful views although we enjoyed Johnston Canyon in Banff a little better because the paths bring you lower into the canyon.
Very nice walking experience through the Canyon. Very secure trail with lots of information to learn about the plans in the area. Perfect for people who like to walk and be close to the water
"Enjoyed Malign Canyon and it is very well set out for visitors, short walks available around the canyon."
"A wonderful lake, the drive to the “big” lake is quite wonderful, with opportunity to see great views, enjoyable walks and glimpses of wild life.The lake and the centre near the carpark are great. There is a large carpark but sadly very few disabled allocated parking spots, and the path from the carpark to the lake/centre was dreadful – totally unsuitable for wheelchair users, I chatted to two or three other disabled people and everyone expressed their frustration with access.However the lake is awesome and the centre well equipped and a good disabled toilet.Make an effort and go there, it is lovely"
"We had read a great deal about Maligne Canyon and it was definitely on my 20 day itinerary for our family's Trans Canada Odyssey which which would take us from Toronto to the the border of British Columba (Yoho National Park) and back.So during our drive to Maligne Lake, we decided to first trek through this canyon. While the trek itself was interesting and energesing really we could not see much inside he canyon. because it was too deep and dark. So we just trudged up and down, trying at many places to get a peak of the turquoise blue water rushing through but at hardly one or two points could we get glimpses of it.We were told by regulars that the real time to visit this natural wonder is in winter when the river freezes and one can walk/slide down the canyon on a river of ice!!Well maybe better luck next tiime!!!"
"Maligne Canyon is a bit of a drive from Jasper for a short stop, but the lake is lovely. We saw a moose in the woods, and a park ranger was on the road giving information about the moose in the park. We were told that this was superior to Lake Louise, but couldn't agree with that assessment. Medicine Bow Lake on the way to Maligne is also very beautiful."
"Stunning canyon, walk is manageable for families and views from each bridge are all different and worth viewing."
"Visit Maligne Canyon, before or after visiting Medicine Lake & Maligne Lake, take a guided cruise on Malign, learn about local history & customs"
Really liked the area because it had beautiful views and was able to climbe to a vantage point. Nothing to dislike.
"Contrasting suddenly with the wide river above it, the canyon became very narrow and impressively deep, water coursing through and around rocks, eating and wearing them away to leave interesting rock formations. There was a clear well maintained path along the canyon giving plenty of opportunities to take photographs which cannot really capture the raw beauty of the place."
"We started our hike from the 5th bridge. The view leading up to the canyon was fantastic! The trail was not busy, so we took our time and took in the view. Maligne Canyon is unique and certainly worth the visit!"
"Beautiful canyon with a manageable walk, cute tea house at the top and it is free with your park pass. Don't forget your camera!"
"This Canyon hike has a lot of wildlife, scenery, and has trails for all ages and abilities. If you are in the area take the drive and take the hike, you won't regret it."
"Don't wear flipflops or sandals. It's a fantastic walk, not too difficult and the canyon and river is beautiful. Definitely worth the visit."
"With a short walk, visitors may see impressive falls in a deep gorge that takes your breath away. The first bridge leads to several other bridges downstream, all with their equally impressive views. The paths are secure and the bridges well build. The elevation steepens and depending on the footwear and lung capacity, six bridges can be crossed. We traveled over three bridges and felt we had seen enough. This is a 'must see' attraction. If time is short, stop at this canyon and return to the town. We traveled onward to Maligne Lake and were somewhat disappointed. It was no better than many of the lakes we had already seen from the roadside.The gorge has a nice lodge with reasonably priced food and gifts. There is also a selection of native artwork and, of course, good bathrooms."
No dislikes......everything breathtaking views. Very good restaurant and other facilities. Hit and miss for wildlife but just keep your eyes opened because suddenly bears appear!! Brilliant.
"Every time I go to Jasper we end up walking through Maligne canyon, it still amazes me! Such a beautiful site to see. You can do go all the way to the 6th bridge in 1.5 hours, 3 round trip."
"Beautiful vistas. Beautiful rapids and waterfalls. Do yourself a favour. Walk to, or to see all 5 bridges. It is a wonderful walk. And please wear proper footwear. Saw so many people in sandals and flip flops. It's a canyon, trail in the mountains in the forest. Dress accordingly. Saw so many of the ill prepared turn back. We were fortunate to be guided through. Learning about what you are seeing adds so much to the experience."
Visited on the way to Maligne Lake. Not as good as I expected it to be... perhaps it is more stunning in the winter time.
Easy access off of the freeway and there are multiple bridges to determine how much hiking if you want to do any hiking in this area.Bridges 1 and 2 make a round trip loop that's easy to walk and shows off the splendor of the canyon. Can get busy and cramped during the summer with there are lots of tourists!
"Maligne Lake and Maligne Canyon are definitely worth visiting. I would go to the lake first and then drive down to the canyon. Save some time to hike at the canyon; there are several different trails. The tea shop has excellent milk shakes and a reasonable price for breakfast. On the way back to the canyon, we spotted a bear eating about 10 feet from the side of the road."
"We were only going to do approx 4 Km but the signage/maps were bad on the trails, so we ended up doing 7 km, which nearly killed me"
"This was the first time that we had visited such a beautiful park with many trails. Maligne Canyon or the trail to the 5th Bridge, as they say, is a must visit if you're in Jasper National Park. You can hear the force of the water and the scenery truly catches your attention. Lovely, lovely!"
"This was my favorite sight that we saw on our trip. Amazing waterfalls, beautiful blue water. It was a good hike, make sure to bring water with you! The path is a bit confusing so make sure to ask for a map. Everyone was asking how to return to the top of the parking lot."
Another spectacular waterfall that has the glacier blue color that is so captivating.....the canyon is very deep due to the action of the powerful water carving deep into the rock...fairly easy walk to viewing area.
Hiked to all the bridges. A bike to not be missed for sure. The power of the water in the canyon is amazing. Loved it!
"Thanks to information we had read about the canyon, we started our hike at Sixth Bridge. Between Sixth and Fifth Bridge you get to see water bubbling up out of the ground and joining the main river. This was so fascinating to witness. From Fifth Bridge you get to see the canyon walls start to form. As you continue on and cross bridges 4, 3, 2, and 1 you get to see potholed canyon walls and lovely waterfalls. From bridge 4 upward it continues to get busier as well. At the top there are washrooms and a gift shop. You can start the walk from the top, but I must say we really enjoyed starting at Sixth Bridge and watching the canyon form and develop. Very impressive."
"One of the best places to know in the park, easy and well signalized access. Pay attention to wild life in the way."
"Really nice and pretty moderate hike along the canyon as it drops down. It`s a bit strenuous on the way back up, but nothing we couldn`t handle. Highly recommended!"
"If you have plenty of time, go visit here. The scenery is not breaktaking but it's very enjoyable hiking here.
If you just have one day, go directly to the end of the road to visit Maligne lake and Medicine Lake."
Very pretty. Moderate hike overall. It was amazing to see what water could done to the nature. Some part was really deep and scary. Overall very nice scenery.
"A good walk down and an especially aerobic walk back up to the top carpark from the bottom, for a couple in their 60's. Great to see the power of the water racing down through the deep canyon and see how its carved its way down through. We visited in mid May and there was still some ice in the shadows of the canyon. I think it would be even more spectacular when frozen in winter. Certainly worth a look."
"Walk along a pretty creek in a pretty canyon carved out by the creek and see some wild life. I like the way Canada Parks control the environment around their parks, with fencing to keep little ones from getting into trouble."
Truly astounding to see the power of rushing water through the etched out dramatic gorge. Easy to get to--go early or late because it gets crowded.
"Really scenic, only walked to just past the 3rd Bridge as it started to rain – you need to be fairly fit for the hike back! We visited the canyon after spending the morning at Maligne Lake, we arrived just after lunchtime and didn’t have any problems parking."
"A wonderful location. We stopped in the car park intending just to have a look at the river, but the trails looked so interesting that we set off up a route following the roaring river which tumbled through deep gorges and down waterfalls. The scenery was amazing and the paths were laidout to take full aadvantage of the views. Through woodland with wild flowers and up over bridges the paths were clearly marked and points of interest were signposted. Well worth the steep walk. Good parking and facilities."
We loved our walk through this amazing canyon. The power and thunderous noise of the water as is rushers through the narrow canyon is truly awesome. The best part of the canyon is also the most accessible and the easiest although we enjoyed walking in further.
We were scouting wildlife in the area and came upon the canyon not expecting much. We were pleasantly surprised by the power of the water through such a tiny space. Nice walks along the edges despite the high number of people. We are told that it is great to visit in Winter to take an ice walk.
"This was a beautiful place which we found just off the road to Maligne Lake. There were several walks through the woods and along the side of the river with its impressive gorges and pounding river. Through the woods there are wild flowers, birds and butterflies and informative boards giving information and directions. The temptation is to stand and take photos at every turn as the views are stunning."
Beautiful hike. One of my favorites. Unique from the others. It's a pretty good hike but most enjoyable
"We started at the car park at the ""top"" which is where the tea room is. Don't start at bridge 5 or 6. Parking at both from the main access road, then walk up the river on ""far side"" towards bridge 4. The river is powerful and canyon starts getting steeper and steeper, but the important thing is that you're going uphill.So when you get to the top at bridge 1, stop by the very friendly tea room for a beer or coffee then it's downhill all the way.Allow about 2-3 hours from bridge 5. It's a stunning place, you won't regret it.Maybe 10-15 minutes from Jasper."
We really enjoyed the hike through maligne canyon. No too difficult and it is do able for those who wish to hike the full length or just portions. The falls were very nice and photo worthy. We had done johnston canyon near banff but think maligne Canyon was better.
The path lines a mighty chasm so deep in places you cannot see the water.various points give you a great impression of the power of the water.It is spectacular with waterfalls tumbling and at one point the canyon narrows to about 4 feet.....wow! I was suitably impressed and so will you be. This is why we came to Canada.There is a good restaurant on site as well
We loved the Maligne Canyon trails. The waterfalls and waters flowing through the canyon was great. The trails and bridges were well marked and easy to traverse. Make sure you visit this trail while your in Jasper. In the winter the falls freeze and you can hike on ice!
"We loved the walking trails beside the canyon and the spectacular views from the bridges! WOW! The sights and sounds of the water rushing thru the canyon are quite simply spectacular. Well worth a stop on your way to Maligne Lake,"
"The walk down to the falls was mostly in the shade. The steps, handrails and benches made the trip up and down worth the effort to get the pictures."
we hiked 2 places each day for a week and this was my favorite (and that of others with us). the incredible beauty and so many great pictures to remember this vision of nature.
"The amount of water going through the small space, it is wonder a bigger gap has not been carved. worth the time to strop off"
"Want to stretch your legs a bit but not too much? Thie walk along Maligne Canyon from the upper parking lot down to the lower lot is a very good walk. Bring a picnic lunch from the deli in Jasper and it's a great half day. The upper reaches of the canyon are a lot more crowded with tourists but once you stretch out down the trail, it thins out a lot and chances are you'll be by yourselves, which is why most of us go hiking. Take the 7h trail out of the upper lot on your way down and hug the canyon on the way back up. Great views of rushing glacial water thru a carved stone canyon. About 7k round trip. About 2-2.5 hours round trip.Enjoy"
"This is such a treat. From a short walk to a more strenuous walk, the canyon has wonderful views down below."
"Found this by chance after driving out of Jasper Lodge. Checked the maps at start of the trails, we came back next day to explore along the canyon and observed the rushing waters and erosion that was created by it. Interesting information posted along the trail we took. Not difficult to explore, some steep area, but with caution easy to navigate. Well worth the time and effort. Much longer trails to take and would interest anybody involved in hiking"
"Make sure you take the boat ride to see Spirit Island...It is absolutely gorgeous! You can't go on the island but if you enjoy taking photographs, you will love it!...The water surrounding it is the most beautiful aqua color....Also, there's a great place on the grounds to have lunch...Do not miss this gem!!!"
"Its a long drive (50 km) ish get there from Jasper but well worth it and the drive itself takes in some spectacular scenery. The road only goes to the first part of the lake and you have to return by the same road, so no tour around the lake I'm afraid, but you can walk around the lake. Not sure how far that is, we walked for about a mile but it was much longer than we wanted to walk that day in the heat of summer."
This is a nice hike to the Canyon and back. We stopped at the Stop area 5 and went hiking to the Tea House. Nice afternoon walk.
"This is a great place, It takes about 1 1/2 hours to hike the trail mostly because of stopping to takes pictures. Beautiful waters falls can be seen all along the trails , it's heavily treed so there are nice shady areas to cool off. The only thing i wish was that there is a trolley or small bus that could give you a ride back once you get to the end because it can be tiring having to walk back and it's mostly up hill."
A nice place to visit you will do well to take good photos because of the deepness of the canyons that have been cut out by the river.A nice walk all the same with a good place to stop for a drink or foodPlus a great gift shop to browse around
The canyon here is amazing. The water falls are pretty and the view is spectacular. Several bridges span the canyon for a good vantage point to look down into the canyon. It is not easy to get great photos for those serious photographers. Take a sturdy tall tripod and a wide angle lens.Different lengths of trails to take but hard going back up so take it slow.
"On the day of our visit it started off overcast and we set off to do the shorter walk because I had a bad leg and couldn't walk too far, but one magnificent view after another enticed us to go on going much further than we had planned. We would have gone further but the weather turned and it started to rain, the pain in my leg was irrelevant in comparison to the stunning, truly stunning views of this canyon. DO NOT MISS THIS"
"Superb site here not to be missed on your excursion route around Jasper. Nice and easy, well kept trail walk around the site enables safe and spectacular views. Well worth the trip."
"A few friends, my husband and I went to Maligne Canyon for the day to partake in great views and some hiking. The trails were well maintained and there was a variety of levels of trails available.The only downside to coming here is that in Late June and most of the summer there are many tourists that make the canyon very active and therefore harder to maneuver. We saw several people with pets that were on leash so it was great to see a pet friendly place and there were also many tables and areas to picnic."
amazing trip. the waterfalls are really special and since there is essentially no cost to this the entire trip is worth a stop for a few hours. we spent around 3 hours at this attraction and we will certainly stop back on our next trip through.
"Going down the trail and stairs and see in to the canyon 20-25m deepWater is running from Maligne Lake into Medicine Lake(which in the summer almost disappear)luck of the water from Maligne Lake.From Medicine Lake water runs thru channels in the rock and that's the result-Maligne canyon.It is beautiful, but don't forget you have to walk allthese stairs up.But if you drive,somebody can wait for you on the bridge#5 and don't have to walk up!"
"Did the long walk with 2 kids 10&12, about 2 hours with some steep sections but quite safe and (other than kids complaining of tired legs) we loved it. We took the high track and and back up from the low end of the canyon seeing it unfold in all its glory as we went. Highly recommended, spectacular."
"Beautiful place to visit. Lots of walks to do with plenty of scenery and waterfalls, you can many an hour just walking through the Canyon do ensure you wear sensible shoes."
"It was a drizzly day, the weather not suited for most activities, so we decided to go to Maligne Canyon for some up close sightseeing. Great choice! The water rushing through the canyon creating potholes and waterfalls was breathtaking. The trip down the canyon was easy - more difficult on the way up. Totally worth the effort! There is the obligatory gift shop and restaurant at the entrance."
"Theres something about rushing crashing water thats beautiful no matter where I see it. The Maligne Canyon gives you this experience in ample measure. Plus it has a very nice trail one can walk along following the canyon to several vantage viewing points. Point to consider is that the walk to the lower bridge is downhill with a steep climb back, but easily doable."
Go in the morning. The trek to bridge two and three is very little and gets you the best view. Awesome sight!
Its a beautiful place. Nature gifted. If you like hiking..Great! If not make sure to be prepared because when you go following the path its ok but to came back it is only and only hills.
Various bridge crossings gives you an excellent view of the canyon. Suggest you walk to at least the third bridge to get the various views. The walk from the second to the third bridge involves a series of steps so is not suitable for wheelchairs or people with walking difficulties.
A must visit. Fantastic views of the gorge and spectaculr river features. Do the longer walk which is well worth the effort. If possible return in the evening to do the shorter walk when coach tour groups have finished.. Access is easy and parking plentiful. Fit your visit inwitha boat trip to Maligne lake/Spirit island.
"There are 5 bridges for this trail, you can choose to return at any point. The trail is about 4.5 k round trip with a 100 m elevation gain. The trail at times has steep steps.Because of torrential rain, we only did part of the trail. It was very interesting to see how the power of the water carves the rocks. Pretty amazing. Be on the lookout for bears on the side of the road nearby -- we saw 4."
"Had a 2 mile walk around this canyon and really enjoyed it, the scenery is stunning and we saw friendly chipmunks! The water flowed rapidly and provided lovely photo opportunities. Would highly recommend a visit if in this area."
"We actually enjoyed this more than Maligne Lake. There are several hikes you can do - we made it down to the 4th bridge, and the views are just incredible."
"We only went to Bridges 2 and 1 due to a lack of time, but the view from those two vantage points was fantastic. The canyon is narrow and deep with raging waters and falls. Even if you only see part of it, it is well worth it. We didn't have time to drive to Maligne lake. Next time."
Well worth a visit but make sure you are prepared to spend at least 45 minutes there and are ready for many steps dowwn and a significant climb back up.
This place is worth spending time at. The canyon is so deep at parts and the trails give you a choice of how far you want to go. Some of the trails are a little steep but definitely worth the walk to see nature at it's most violent and best.
"easy hike from Bridge 1 to Bridge 6. It will take about 4 hours so be prepare to bring water and food. The hike itself is very relax and have many view point to stop and rest. if you are tired, just stop at bridge 5 because there are not much to see from bridge 5 to 6."
"About 20 minutes drive from Jasper will get you to the canyon, which is just off the same road that takes you past Medicine Lake and along to the Maligne Lake itself. If you enjoy a good walk then you can follow the walkways (sometimes a little tricky underfoot) and track the canyon for quite a few km. There are several designated walks to follow and the views down into the canyon are quite spectacular. If you've never seen it before then the first glimpse is quite breathtaking!"
"Like the yes, wildlife galore, nice rapids and huge Maligned Lake. Watch out for the mosquitos down by the lake shore."
"We thought that we would drop in on our way to Maligne Lake, but this was the highlight of the drive. The narrow deep canyon impresses with the savage crash of water thundering down tens of metres. Not to forget the 6 black bears we saw on the drive as well."
Just a short walk to the canyon to see the spectacular rapids in the gorge. Well worth te detour to see.
This is one of my favorite places. Beautiful. Lots of wildlife. We visited it a couple times while we were there.
"Although we had seen many such sites, we decided that the hour drive to and from Maligne Lake would be worthwhile because we would see wildlife. That is not the reason to do this drive. Although there are myriad caribou crossing signs, there are no caribou -- and, we learned later -- they are at higher elevations.However, the lake itself really is spectacular. Cross the bridge even if you do not walk to the lake just to get the view of those misty mountains surrounding the lake."
Wow! A must see in Jasper. We did the medium length walk in about 1 1/2 hour. Great views on the canyon. Don't miss that!
"A real landmark, steep climb up or down the canyon, good for cloudy days, because it is dark inside anyway. Come there after 4 p.m and avoid the crowds"
"We spent an hour or so walking around and taking pictures. Walk is a little steep, but not too strenuous. We enjoyed views of canyon, falls, rock formations."
"We stopped at Maligne Canyon on our way back from Maligne Lake and it is a must-see for any visitor to the park. A 51 metre deep canyon with sheer walls (some about 5 metres in width) and water thundering through and down them. This was a spectacular site and the photo's and videos that were taken has done this canyon justice. There are several walk trails, viewing points and crossings along the canyon and river. Visitors should venture further down these trails as they are missing half of what this Canyon has to offer. Beat the rush and get there early before all the other tourists and enjoy yourself. A definite must see when visiting the Rocky Mountains."
Beautiful area with several walks none of which are too demanding. If we had known we would have planned to spend the day there. From all the stunning areas we saw this was one of the best by far
"We didn't get a chance to walk particularly far at Maligne Canyon (so many beautiful places, so little time) but we walked to to the Third bridge and back again. The canyon is breathtaking and a photographer's dream. Highly recommended."
Experience mother nature at work cutting a canyon. Nice gentle walk along the canyon to experience different sections. Well worth the stop.
"If you hike down past the 3rd bridge, there are fabulous waterfalls, caves and canyon formations to take in without the crowds at the top. Take a couple of hours and do a round trip, it is certainly worth it."
"Jasper National Park is one of the most beautiful places in western Canada; Maligne canyon is one of its highlights and is an absolute must-see for any visitor to the park. The Maligne river has cut the canyon to a depth of over 160 feet, but in places it is less than 10 feet across. There are several trails that follow the canyon and the river and cross it at several points. Although the canyon has become a stopping point for numerous bus tours, the hordes of passengers stay close to the main parking area and the short loop trail. Venturing further along the canyon trails will find quiet places and very few people.The canyon edges are securely fenced and children are quite safe. There is no charge for entry, other than the National Park User Fee."
With beautiful scenery and a great walk to go with them the Maligne Canyon was well worth the stop. We were rewarded with some stunning views but keep going to the end to receive the ultimate reward.
"A good place to go for a walk. Can also ice climb there. In winter definitely bring yak tracks or crampons or some sort of grippy footwear, gets very slippery. Significant elevation changes along the walk make it slightly tougher going that the short distance would suggest. Bring a camera as views are lovely."
We took a chance and stopped to look and we were glad we did. We walked to the third bridge and could have stopped at the second one. The thirty minute walk would probably be enough for most people.
This is nice walk. .go early in the day to avoid the crowds. . it is not too much fun to be walking 2-3 abreast sometimes.
"This place was to us something we sorta stumbled upon. The scenery is beautiful and it's always interesting what is up ahead. However if you have problems with your knees I wouldn't recommend going that far. The trails vary in terrain, steepness and what you walk on. We unfortunately only had about 30 minutes there and I feel like i didn't see enough. For that reason be aware there is much to see and that takes time."
"Maligned Canyon is one of those places where you can go for a short visit or easily stay for hours. In our case, we arrived around 9:30am and stayed for three hours. From the parking lot it was a short walk to either the first or second bridge across the canyon and you can use those bridges to make a short loop. You can also walk along the either side of the canyon down to the third and fourth bridges for an even longer loop, which is what we did. We stopped from time to time to take photos of the canyons and small waterfalls, which is definitely challenging given the deep shadows in the canyon. Overall, though, this is a great place to visit if you like waterfalls and canyons. Note that most of the paths are paved with fences beside them, but other paths are not paved and you can get very close to the top of the canyon — so watch your small children!"
"The canyon falls were beautiful, totally amazing, nature's wonders at their best. Take time to walk the bridges and enjoy."
"Four stars doesn't mean you shouldn't go, this is an impressive area. I just wasn't overwhelmed with the place. If you need to cross one thing off what could be a long list of things to see, this might be it."
This is a lovely walk and wonderful to see the gorge and river which have bridges and a defined trail which is fenced and made safer for families. It is well worth a visit.
Easy walk from the car park along the canyon to see the power of nature that has been cut through the rocks. We were also able to see a Raven on a ledge feeding her chicks and wild orchid springing to life. Put this one on your list of must sees.
The easy and medium trails are definitely doable. There are a lot of steps and the rocks can be slippery especially if wet. Lots of fencing and guard rails so goof for kids too.
After a fun drive through the mountains to get to Maligne Canyon with wildlife all over the place Maligne Canyon is a great place to relax and enjoy a marvel of nature.There are numerous hiking trails of various difficulties but the reason one goes Maligne Canyon is for the impressive view of the Canyon/Gorge! All along the trails there's something to view that catches your interest! A definite must visit if you're going to Jasper National Park!
It is an experience you can not explain. Spend some time by the lake. We visited as a family and had great time there. Felt like we all were in our elements and in harmony with nature.
This canyon is along the road to Maligne Lake. We entered the canyon walk from the main car park. It was a short walk from the car park to the bridge where spectacular views of the canyon could be seen. We walked to the next bridge and returned and the view of the canyon is spectacular. It's worth the stop.
What more is there to say than come experience this nature event both winter and summer time. Ice climbing in winter to hiking the canyon hearing the roar of the water as it rumbles against the canyon walls below. Please wear proper attire and proper shoes for this.
We toured Maligne Canyon and Lake through Sundog Tours. ONE OF THE MOST BEAUTIFUL PLACES we've ever been. The Lake is STUNNING. Take one of the Sundog Tours as their guides are incredibly knowledgeable and informative.
"We visited this canyon while visiting Jasper and we were so happy that we did!The trails down were fairly easy and the falls were exciting to watch. Coming back up was steep, but we could rest on the benches provided along the way. We saw a nest in the canyon wall of the Black Swift birds and the birds were actually in the nests, what a treat to see! They are on the endangered list, so we felt blessed to have seen them. We only visited 4 bridges due to our schedule to visit other sights in the area, but we do highly recommend that you put this canyon on your 'to visit' list!"
"We started the walk at the sixth bridge so had a little bit to go before reaching the canyon but it was a nice walk through woodland. You can also park at the other end where there is a restaurant, shop and toilets and do shorter walks taking in some of the canyon. The views into the canyon and the rushing water were awesome. Just when we thought we had enough photos another opportunity would present itself. We rewarded ourselves with an ice cream on the deck of the restaurant overlooking the river at the end before heading back by a different route. I would suggest if you intend to go on path 7H through the woods that you do it on the way back to sixth bridge as it would be quite a strenuous climb in the other direction"
"This gauge is stunning, with steep cliffs on either side of the river that is flowing very quickly. There are many gushing waterfalls along the bush walking tracks.
Located 10 minutes from Jasper, this attraction is free, with free parking available."
Nice walk with roar of the water. Canyons are deep and rush of water is exciting. We had hours to spare as the train from Jasper was delayed by 4 hours and we made it to the canyon. The icing on the cake was seeing couple of bears in the woods.
this is another place you can let the kids run around a bit and explore on their own. my son and i would take our dinners there and relax after a day of hiking and then he would go down to the water and hop around from rock to rock while i soaked my weary feet! fabulous memories from this trip. if you take food with you don't forget to pack up and out. let's leave these beautiful areas they way we find them or better 8D
Went in 2012Traveled to Canada with my sister and mumWe stayed over in jasper prior to our rocky mountaineer train tripAll the local points around jasper where all done fantastic sights great value got to be doneCan't remember the dates now but excellent trip
"This is one of my favorite places in the world! Maligne Canyon is almost a spiritual experience, as you witness first hand the power of nature. For those who are fully mobile, it's best to drive to the topmost bridge and hike down the canyon. For those who are less mobile, you'll want to start at the bottom of the canyon and just walk as far as you are able. It's much flatter and easier terrain on the lower part of the canyon. The top is steeper and there are more challenges to maneuver. Caution should be taken when accompanied by children."
"If you happen be in Jasper, don't miss going to Maligne Canyon, and also the restaurant, gift shop where you will find some nice gifts and souvenirs to bring back home.
The canyon is spectacular with its deeply carved lime stone."
What a beautiful walk you can take to see the area. One of the best places in Jasper. Was able to do it on a nice day. Can het a little busy.
"The canyons were good ones with water flowing down from a considerable height. While you walk down along the river flowing through the canyon, you can see some beautiful small falls which merge into the main stream.Plan to spend at least 3 hours if you want to enjoy the beauty of nature along the trail."
"These falls call for a bit of hiking all down hill on the way in and all up on the way out, however it is well worth the work. I have been to the falls in the spring when there frozen and again in the summer when they are not, both seasons are amazing times to go. So bring your camera pack a lunch and wear some sturdy shoes and enjoy."
"The canyon was just a little different because of its creation... but lets face facts, canyons are canyons."
"Wes from Sundog Tours was our guide and I have to say he was so knowledgeable. He found us a black bear grazing on the side of the road, Osprey nest (with Osprey watching over it), Moose and we watched the salmon in the river at Maligne Lake. Wes's knowledge comes from many years of service with the National Parks Service. Wes showed us fossils by pouring water on rocks - we would have missed those if he hadn't shown us. Thanks to Wes we had a wonderful morning"
"The water has carved into the Rock an amazing canyon that should not be missed by any visitor to the areaA good Restaurant/shop/washroom facility and truly amazing viewsDo not hop the fence for a closer pic. for the Rock is ""slippery when wet"" and people die here annually"
"If it's your first time or 100th time in Jasper, you have to go to Maligne Canyon! Pack your walking/hiking shoes, camera, water and a snack. You descend rather sharply and then even out, but the terrain can get a little rough or slippy at times. Last time we went, 5th bridge was closed, so look ahead to make sure it is open for your hike. The going back up is the hardest part, but the views make the whole journey worth it! Respect the posted signs and fences. Don't die for the sake of a picture."
"Maligne Canyon was one of my favorites, but I think it was because we stayed at the hostel across the street, so it was close. We also went at 9pm so there was no one else there, a rarity in Jasper. The Canyon itself is amazing, it is so deep. It is a nice little hike to all the bridges and back. I would recommend going, and going early or later to avoid the crowds."
Great scenic and breathtaking hike. Moderate hike - down and then back up and well worth any huffing and puffing. Great water views constantly. Great fall views. Beautiful scenery. A must.
My sister and I visited Maligne canyon on a recent visit to Jasper. There are multiple bridges and you're able to tailor your hike to what you're comfortable with. The canyon was definitely worth seeing but not totally accessible so we stopped at the second bridge as we had a stroller and an infant with us.
"We did only the top circuit of walking which is suitable for most hikers. There are rocks which can be uneven, but generally no steep inclines and you can get a great view of the falls.There are two other trails of increasing difficulty & inclines if you're fit and able to do so.Went on a weekday & it was nice and quiet with very few visitors."
"Not very far from the city center, Maligne Canyon is a must visit on your trip to Jasper. Rock formations are a beauty in itself, but the real part is hiking the canyon. It has 3 loops - a 2 km (beginner/family) loop, a 5 km loop and a strenuous 9 km. We did the intermediate one, and were awed by the beautiful sights and sounds of the water gushing through rocks and valleys. Some views that we encountered during our hike were breathtaking - make sure you take your binoculars along."
"Things had not really opened up for the warm season yet, so perhaps our take on it isn't appropriate for high season, but it was beautiful but did not seem to merit the level of hype it receives?"
"A lovely tea house waiting for you after this hike. Steep descent followed by a steep climb. You can choose several pathways depending on your physical abilities and amount of time you want to spend. It is a stunning view, but a lot of work to get there and back."
"Nice hike. I started at parking lot 6 which gave me a longer hike to the canyon, which is what I wanted, and a bit more time taking a trail less travelled. Also avoided the high volume of people parked at the end of the trail where all the tour busses park. It was relatively easy hike, some stairs at end of hike where canyon is, I'd do this one again."
"Great place to visit when in the area, Have been many times but always love it. Sometimes the crowds can detract from the experience but still worth the trip. If you can, the full walk is enjoyable."
A lot of car traffic so not a good road for bicycles. Many pull outs for cars so folks can get out and take pictures.
Beautiful trail walk/hike. We parked at 6th bridge and walked into the canyon along the stream. Trail is well interpreted but still wild. It was dry in May when we were there so hiking shoes or boots were fine. Some of the exposed slopes by the stream on rainy days you will need hiking boots and a sense of balance. No sneakers on rainy days for this trail.Recommend taking the Upper trail back to 6th bridge. This is well marked from the Restaurant/Visitor Center at the top and you will have excellent vistas of Jasper Town and the mountains.This a natural surface trail until about half way down the canyon so hiking footwear and good sense of balance is needed.
"We walked from bridge 1 to bridge 5 and in May the water level seemed quite low. Not too many exciting things to see from bridge 4-5 except the 5th bridge itself was quite nice. Would have been an ok walk if we hadn't already hiked all day. We should have just drove in to the 5th bridge. The start of the canyon was gorgeous. We did not see the 6th bridge, but it was quite a bit further and you can drive in and park there as well.The dog was very popular with all the children who wanted to pet her."
"Went here the end of April. After reading you could start the hike at bridge 6 and then slowly walk up to the canyon at the first bridge I decided to do this. Between the 6th and the 5th bridge was still a lot of snow and I was the only person walking here, didn't feel great plus it didn't really add something to the beauty of the rest of the walk. Maybe in the summer it's gorgeous between these bridges, but for now I would recommend people to start there hike no earlier than the 5th bridge. The rest of the trail was stunning with waterfalls and the canyon in the end. Definitely go check it out!"
"went on the tour that included this stop, it was a cold but very clear morning, great pictures of the canyon and water tumbling down, was a steep walk back up though, recommend you only go to 2nd bridge if you have breathing issues"
"The photo opportunities while hiking through Maligne Canyon are just incredible. If you are reasonably fit, this is a ""must see"" while in the Jasper area."
"Went back in jan when there was a lot of snow and ice still on the ground. It was absolutely stunning!! You can do a ice walk which would have been a lot of fun, we just walked around and got some amazing photos"
"We went in April when the icewalk tours weren't running because too much of the ice had melted. However there was still plenty to see, and we walked the canyon edge trail from above. We did the loop, which was VERY UPHILL on the way back. Like crazy uphill. We could have walked back the way we came, but wanted to see something different. My calves certainly FELT something different after that walk. The first half of the walk was on varying terrain - dirt path, mud, rocks, dry crumbly rocks/dirt. The scenery was amazing though - worth every step!"
"We took a tour led by Joy. She was an excellent guide, very knowledgeable, and focused on safety. I never felt like we were taking any risks and she paid very close attention to everyone in the group. The walk was just spectacular! There is nothing like it, certainly not in Texas. We took tons of photos and even got to slide down a little hill. I would definitely recommend this to anyone visiting Jasper in the winter. We thoroughly enjoyed ourselves and Joy was a fabulous guide."
"We enjoyed the walk around the canyon on the first and second bridges. We didn't have mobile guests with us so a hike was out of the question. But it was a very nice attraction, quite jaw dropping to see how deep the canyon is. Recommended."
"This another reason to make the trip to Jasper National Park. This walk is bets taken down the canyon unless you are fit and enjoy the challenge of an up hill climb. The trail is one of the true gems of the Park and it can be as long or short as you like as they have several places to leave the trail, it is best if you know in advance where you are getting off the trail or your ride will not be where you need it. Truly one of the highlight of a trip to the Park"
"A really fun Canyon crawl. We started from Fifth Bridge and made our way up through the slot Canyon. There are waterfalls, and caves to explore. Just pure beauty. Make sure you have trekking poles and Microspikes to navigate the ice."
"So stunningly beautiful, easy to access and we spent a fun couple of hours here. Worth a visit while in the Jasper region."
In winter it is possible to walk through the canyon on the frozen river. In summer the canyon bottom is a raging river that sweeps away anything in its path. But in winter one can walk amidst frozen waterfalls and icefalls along the canyon wall. Look up at the steep walls and imagine peering down from above. Soon summer will come and that will be the only view possible. It is recommended to hire a guide for this tour.
The maligne canyon is a great short hike through some beautiful scenery. There are a 5 or 6 bridges but its easy to miss the first one (near the toilets!). Just remember that its downhill and basically a one-way so you have to go back up when you want to leave! What's great is that there are trails on either side of the canyon so you don't have to go back exactly the way you came!
Managed to walk the first three bridges in Maligne Canyon but it is downhill so you end up having to walk back up again so for me being so unfit I felt that the first three bridges was far enough. This was a lovely walk with quite a few people arriving after we got there and we had to pass them on the way back up which in some parts was narrow so had to wait... (that was good for me)At the time of our visit bridge 5 was closed as there was some damage so you could only walk to the fourth one anyway so we don't think we missed that much.This is another must see thing to do if you have time and was one of the highlights of our trip.
Kids love this because you can walk over the falls on a bridge. Water is rushing so fast through the narrow canyon that it is quite loud. Worth the stop.
The most beautiful place on the earth in the winter time!! Summer time is gorgeous but winter time is one step closer to GOD!!! Truly worth seeing!
"Sundog tours did a great job. A 2 hour ice walk with the highlight being the descent into the maligne valley falls to see the frozen waterfalls from ground level. You need to be reasonably sure footed as this is icy at this time of year, even with the supplied snow boots and ice cleats. Joy and frank were enthusiastic and knowledgeable guides who made sure we were safe and made this an unforgettable experience. I recommend this experience."
"Although I don't like going on tourist type tours, this ice walk I did was worth it. If your in the area, go check it out."
"Stairs, stairs and then there are stairs! Super pretty, great work out, prime place to see wildlife. Bring your bear spray! I recommend starting at the 5th or 6th bridge turn off before the canyon and walk up to the main canyon. This way you won't miss any of the good stuff. Again I say worth it but if you are not quite as fit start from the top and then go down, as this gives you a better idea of what you are getting yourself into. Also you can check it out in the winter as you can actually walk through the canyon on the ice, pretty darn neat. Bring some from of grip for your shoes, icers or ice cleats. You can book a guided tour or just explore on your own."
My husband and I took our 12 year old boy on this excursion and we all really enjoyed our morning. We got picked up from our hotel and our tour guide got us fitted for our special foot ware so we could walk safely on the ice without sliding or falling. Very helpful as you will see if you go. There are people trying to do the walk in runners. Where do people think they are going!? The mall! Our guide was knowledgeable and professional. She gave us excellent advice on where to go for lunch and dinner. (Lunch go to The Deli as it is amazing). We are definitely going back this summer and doing the hike around on our own this time.
"Sundog Tours provided a wonderful tour made possible by our guide Wes. Our guide was very knowledgable and charismatic which added to the great scenery of the tour. Walking ice covered canyon floor made for a great time. Highly recommend, and hopefully you get Wes as your guide!"
I'm so glad we went with our super knowledgeable guide Alicia from Sundog tours. The easy hike was about 3 hours and we learned about local ecosystems and geology. The canyon itself was eerily beautiful. Dress warm - it's cold being surrounded by ice for a couple of hours.
It was the first time that I did such tour. Really impressive. The guide Frank was very helpful and took good care of me to avoid slippery. Thank you Frank and Joy. I enjoyed very much.
The canon is only a short drive from Jasper. There is a path down the side of the canyon and several lengths and difficulty of routes. The views of the river and the canyon walls are spectacular and there is lots of wildlife which can be spotted by the sharp eyed.
"A winter ice walk along the bottom of Maligne Canyon organised by Sundog Tours most certainly IS worth the money especially if you get Alicia as your guide. The route is not easy and special boots are ESSENTIAL These are provided by the tour organisers.Without them the trip would be recklessly dangerous as the trip includes walking over frozen snow and ice on downhill slopes and across rocks with water flowing over them. The whole trip is about 4 Km as an out-and-back tour and the scenery and ice formations are unforgettably spectacular providing truly memorable photo-opportunities. In spite of difficulties crossing the terrain in places Alicia made sure that a 76 year double hip-replaced traveller with a rather nervous wife were looked after at all times and given a helping hand (or two!) over the most difficult sections whenever needed whilst, at the same time, indicating to other more agile members of the party more challenging routes they could follow. If ten stars could be awarded Alicia would get them! If you can make it, a winter ice walk along the floor of Maligne Canyon really is a must-do!"
"""Maligne Canyon"" is located only 12km from Jasper,Alberta.It is well worth a visit on its own,but it seems,that most travellers combine this visit with a trip to ""Maligne Lake"",another must-see,further up the road.We parked at the upper parking lot,where we met a Park Rangers,who had several bear skins displayed on a large rock,that a lot of small children found very exiting.My wife and I only had time to explore the falls above the second bridge,where the rushing waters have carved very unusual formations & passages into the Limestone rock.The trail to the bottom of the canyon is fairly steep and uneven,not recommended for the unfit and travellers with arthritic knees.Because the river snakes from side to side through the narrow passages,we found it hard to take good pictures,that do this beautiful canyon true justice because ,pointing down most of the time,the pictures lack a feeling of size of depth of the individual waterfalls and passages.At the upper falls we passed a Tea House/Lodge,but did not pay it a visit."
"Whatever you do, do not take a child under the age of 10. Crazy slippery, steep inclines, hills, and tonnes of climbing. Wish the company would have told us this was not suitable for a child."
We went here for a walk on our own. You can pay $60.00 to take a guided trip but we choose to do it on our own. The walk was very icy and having ice pics on your shoes was a must. WE have the ones you get at Costco for $12.00 and they were worth every penny. It sure made the walk much safer and enjoyable. There are 6 bridges you can walk to and that takes about 3 hours. We got there a bit later in the day so did not make it to the 5th or 6th bridge. The ice formations were just gorgeous and we were able to see people climbing up the canyon ice face. Lots of parking and washrooms available in the parking lot. It is a 15 minute drive from Jasper and worth taking the drive.
"Maligne Canyon in the summer is beautiful! In the winter I would avoid it, you cannot see much from the path, and it is dreadfully icy. If you are going to see the canyons I would recommend booking an ice walk, that would most likely give you a better view. We were going to go that weekend, but it was too warm, so we settled for the top down view instead. It was Meh."
"Well we went with a group called Sun Dog Tours and our Guide was Alicia. It was great from the beginning, on the way to pick up people she kept us informed about the area and answered any questions we had. The trip down the canyon was awesome and the frozen water falls were great to see. I would not recommend anyone do this without cleats but if you do it thru a tour group all that is included. Alicia had some great stories about her coming across bears, so make sure you asks her for the one about the Bikini clad girls and the bear."
"In the winter, this is the BEST activity to do in Jasper.
Rent ice spikes for your shoes at one of the sporting goods stores in Jasper and walk up from Bridge 5. Don't bother with the expense of a guide."
"Easy parking and a short walk down to the canyon. The water was very impressive, immensely powerful as you would expect from the Rockies."
"Captivating and mesmerizing are the only two words necessary for this experience. Oh wait! Alicia, our guide, full of pep, humorous and provided us with more knowledge than I could ever grasp in one trip. You rock girl!"
"Although you can do this ice walk on your own, I found going out with Alicia from Sun Dog tours 100% worth the money! You get a pair of winter rubber boots and cleats to help navigate the icy terrain better. She was incredibly knowledgeable about the local sites, wildlife, dangers and picturesque places! She took some great pictures of me and my boyfriend for us, and we felt safe navigating the area. I would definitely recommend this tour to others!"
"We just finished doing the Maligne Canyon ice walk. Was a nice little activity to do in the winter, amazing pictures and view. The water is all gone so you are walking on top of where the water normally flows. The tour was worth it to get all the info, but not exactly necessary if you can figure out the trail and have ice cleats. (you can pick them up for $20). Follow the other tracks in the snow. Quite different than in the summer."
"Took a 6 and 8 year old, they loved it and not too difficult at all. Dress like you would to go skiing and you'll be fine. Kids wanted to go back the next day so we too them again."
"The frozen ice formations were spectacular, and the Sundog trip guide Alicia went above and beyond. Her passion and expertise were prevalent throughout, and her knowledge and photo-taking skills were superb. I would recommend this trip to anyone planning to have a good 2-3 hour filler. The scenery was fantastic."
"Our group was recently guided by Joy and Brian through the ice canyons. They were knowledgeable about the terrain and what we would see during our visit. Sundog Tour provides warm boots and cleats for those needing appropriate winter gear. This is a worthwhile tour and one that is different from year to year, as nature determines how the ice will be formed. Be prepared to do a bit of climbing to access canyon floor. Having guides who know the area is recommended for safety sake."
Did the tour with Aleisha on the weekend and it was amazing. She was very informative and went the extra mile to make sure everyone got the photos they were looking for.
Joy and Brian were great- we had a big group of kids and adults that had never been on the walk and they made it really interesting. Seeing the ice and how the water forms was really cool to see. If you take the trip to Jasper this is a must!!
There are many tour operators who charge around 60 CAD for the tour. I don't see much value in it.Plan to buy cleats for your shoes. They are very useful during the walk. The tour operators provide it. cleats may be bought for 10-20 CAD.The natural formations are very beautiful and worth the visit. We travelled with kids 6 and 7 year old and was not very difficult. The whole walk took about 4 hours. There are some climbs
"Yesterday's ice walk through the Maligne Canyon was a must do if travelling through Jasper, Alberta! We did a guided tour through the Canyon with Sun Dog tours and our guide Aleisha was awesome! She knew so much about the canyon and the wildlife within. Would definitely recommend taking the tour! Wouldn't have seen or learnt half of the cool stuff if we'd walked it ourselves!"
"We bought a guided tour through Sun Dog and we didn't really know what to expect. Lucky for us we had the most amazing guide, Alicia. She had outstanding knowledge of the canyon and we stopped numerous times to be told about the different wildlife tracks which we could see. She was very keen to help us out and take plenty of 'touristy' photos for us, even at one stage she went on the ground to take a 'famous' photo. She always went that one step further to make the tour more informative and enjoyable which we will be forever grateful for.We were a group of 9 who came from Australia to visit numerous towns in Canada. I would highly reccommend this tour and if you get Alicia as your tour guide you will not be disappointed at all.Thanks for an amazing day!"
Alicia from Sundog Tours was very informative and accomodating for our group of 9. Her local knowledge of the area is great.
"Just finished a tour with Alicia with SunDog tours and it was fabulous! Great views, great company, great guide! What a beautiful part of the park to enjoy when you're visiting Jasper. I highly recommend making a stop here to enjoy the canyon and we would especially like to thank ALICIA so much for your hospitality on our trip. We really enjoyed it. :)"
The Sun Dog tour with our tour guide Alicia was the highlight of our trip to Jasper! We hiked around Maligne Canyon and down to the river bed.
"This ice walk was amazing, however it was pretty cold being from Australia. Alicia from Sundog tours was our guide, she was great. Very knowledgable, always offering to help Mum who is afraid of heights and was a little afraid when walking on the slippery ice. Alicia always offered to take plenty of photos so you could all be in them. Awesome experience, the scenery was truly breathtaking."
"I decided to take this guided tour because of the reviews on here and I was not disappointed! It is simply a stunning experience, the hike out is quite nice and we had a great guide. Once in the canyon it literally takes your breath away. A must for any who are travelling through Jasper in the winter months."
"We have just finished the ice canyon hike with Sun-Dog Tours. We were a group of nine made up of varying ages. This is an amazing activity and our guide Alishia, made it a wonderful experience. Her knowledge of the natural environment was exceptional and made our tour a lot of fun. I had some concerns due to a recent injury but he tour was completed at a comfortable pace and can be done by anyone capable of walking a flight of stairs."
We always start at the 6th bridge which goes along the river for a reasonable distance before you reach the actual canyon. One of our must do's. it is moderately strenuous since you start at the bottom and go up. If you drive to the top of the canyon and just cross the first couple of bridges you can still see the canyon without exerting as much energy and time.
"The hike with Alicia from SunDog Tours was great! It certainly lived up to (and exceeded) my expectations. Highly recommend and if you get Alicia as your guide...even better!!!
Rhonda - from Georgia"
is what you will say when you reach the first bridge.it is really high and wonderous.we walked on the frozen river and was amazed at the glacial sculpting that stretches along the bottom. huge overhangs ice waterfalls and small caverns abound. the ice climbers were there at the time and i should have done that myself.looks so cool and fun.
"Sun dog tours was amazing and our tour guide, Chuck was full of knowledge he shared with us. He was really fantastic!"
"Alysha was very knowledgeable and showed us many wildlife tracks along the way to add to the trip. A lot of extra advice and information were provided, and she was funny too! A great time, highly recommended."
"Did a walk of the canyon and icefalls, amazing views and lovely crisp air.
obviously dress warm (and pack the thermos) you need 2-3 hrs to truly enjoy and take it all in"
"If you're in Jasper in winter, make sure you go to Maligne Canyon! Makes sure you have ice cleats, because you'll be walking on the frozen river! Drive to the Fifth Brudge parking lot, cross the river, and follow the footprints. One trail goes across the river bed before going back up, while the higher trail offers nuce virws of the mountain vistas. My preference is to stay low going in, and come back high. There are two ways into the canyon. One is through a tight keyhold slot. It can be slippery, but it's fun. For less adventurous types, just keep going. You'll find a place farther up where the fence has been opened up and you can easily clamber down into the canyon. Turn left and keep going until you see ice climbers! Parks Canada posts signs, usually marked by a tree laid across the ice, that show where the safe section ends. Stay out from under the frozen waterfalls, watch out for thin spots on the ice, and you should be fine. To be on the safe side, look for the thumbtack marks of the tour groups' cleats. If they've gone there, you know the path is safe. I wouldn't waste your money ($55-65) for a guided trip unless you don't have cleats for walking on ice. There are a few good guides, but Maligne Tours and others will exagerate the dangers to sell their trips. Their gear is also pretty cheap - you can get better cleats at Canadian Tire for $20, and you can use them all winter."
Stunning carved stone striated with colour decorated with cold fingers of ice. True Canadian winter wonderland.
"Wow, this place is simply awe inspiring and a vision of natures power. Walk, Hike and Breathe in the clean crisp air as you view waterfalls and one of many of Alberta's treasures."
"I have done this hike in the summer time and it's great I love it . I just went back in the winter and it's awesome also you can walk in the canyon see the few waterfalls from up close , it's almost scary when your at the bottom but worthed . Dont forget to wear spikes , too dangerous to go down there just with regular boots"
Hike this Canyon in winter for a really cool experience.. you get to be right down in the Canyon - the ice formations are awesome!
"This time of year the waterfalls are frozen, we got to walk on Ice, visit the canyon that formed over thousands of years, the walk was very beautiful, the mountains are great, it takes a 2 hour walk to see this beautiful place but there were some trails that we didn't follow, totally recommended, bring proper clothing, temperatures are really low, even consider to bring snow pants, at least 2 layers of pants and 3 or 4 layers on top. also water-proof winter boots are completely required. be safe."
"What an incredible experience. It had snowed quite a bit the day before which made for an interesting drive into Jasper (but that is another story) and it turned the area into a veritable winter wonderland. The trees were covered in freshly fallen snow and there was hoar frost everywhere. Our guide, Alicia Waller, was very informative and personable. She had an answer for every question we could think of. A very friendly young lady who clearly knows her way around the area. We went into the canyon and witnessed ice climbers and saw a beautiful cathedral of ice formations. The surrounding mountain range was also covered in freshly fallen snow...everything looked so pristine and white. We were even entertained by a marten on our walk. The pace was easy for anyone to keep up."
Stopped by early on a frosty Sunday morning to take a look as hadn’t been to the Canyon in almost ten years. We had the entire place to ourselves so we took our coffees and wandered the trails until we couldn’t feel our fingers. Such a nice quiet place to enjoy the fine nature that Jasper has to offer. Trails are slippery so it might be worthwhile to bring either grippy shoes or ice spikes to put on your shoes to avoid wiping out. Definitely check out the canyon floor to get the best view of the ice walls.
The Maligne Canyon walk crosses a series of bridges leading down along deep rocky limestone gorge where you see great views of waterfalls splashing into the canyon. Some sections can be steep so not for the sprightly . You can do an easy 2 bridge loop but to get the full effect you need to go at least 5-6 bridges down. We were there in summer but were told in winter you need spikey shoes because the trail can get icy.
"The Maligne Canyon hike along wonderful paths and bridges features a very narrow and deep rock chasm formed by water coming underground from Medicine Lake. It is both beautiful and interesting! We went in from the upper end and hiked down 4 or 5 bridges. Quite a bit of up/down so not for those who prefer flat trails. But if you want flat trails, what are you doing in the Canadian Rockies?"
"we were fortunate with 12 degree weather and sunshine but if you're not familiar with ice walks, rent the shoe spikes in town... It's worth it!"
What a fascinating place to see in the winter - and at night. I really enjoyed the opportunity to look at some interesting geology in the canyon and see how the system changed from winter to summer. Well worth it for rock geeks.
"A must-see. Fantastic gorge of raging, crashing waterfalls all laid out so it is relatively easy to go from the top to the bottom (lots of steps of course) but well worth every step. No description could truly do this place justice - lost count of the number of photos I took and I wish I had taken lots more. MAGNIFICENT."
"I did the guided Ice-walk through Maligne Canyon and it was incredible! Especially our guide John was just a volt of knowledge and those interesting facts and many stories all about the area and the history of the canyon and the surrounding mountains (you won't get to hear it without a guide) made it very special! I highly recommend doing a guided tour, especially for people like me who travel without a car - they do a shuttle! No excuses to see this miracle of nature!"
this is a beautiful easy walk at the edge of the river. a very narrow canyon with over hanging fauna creates a photographers dream.
"We had a lovely time at the Canyon, but if you have your own car, then skip the tour and rent the cleats yourself from one of the local ski shops. That way you can tour on your own time and enjoy the canyon for as long as you like."
Beautiful stop with breathtaking views. There a bridges over top of deep gorges where you can feel the cold spray of ice water on your face from the waterfalls. There are many locations for pictures and memories that will last a lifetime.
"Make sure you wear ice grippers and it would be easier to enter from 5 th bridge so you exit downhill! About the same distance, you climb either way!"
"Maligne Canyon is a must see when you travel through Jasper. We wanted to walk from the 5th bridge up to the main parking lot but the bridge was still missing (end Aug 2014). So we drove up to the lot which was a very busy place. However, if you follow the trails downstream, the crowd get small very quick. Easy hike for kids and the water masses and narrow canyon are impressive. There are several plaques at the top that explain in simple terms how the canyon formed which is quite nice. The place must be spectacular in winter with all the frozen waterfalls. Hope to make it out one day and capture it."
The entire Maligne Canyon is absolutely magnificent. I would return here often just to enjoy the vistas.
We did this alone instead of paying for a tour - didn't fancy shelling out $120+ for the pair of us so gave it a go.It was easy to do aslong as you hire Ice Cleats - they were only 10 dollars and a life saver.Lovely walk down inside the canyon and then along the footpath from bridge 1 to 6 and back.
"We visited this in the summer, when access was relatively easy. You still need to be able to descend and ascend in order to see more than the initial set of falls. The way the water has carved out passages and holes in the rocks is impressive. The paths are well maintained, and most reasonably fit people should be able to cope with them. It is very close to Jasper, and should be a priority to visit."
"Looks like the weather helped out in freezing the Maligne Canyon waters and made it ready to walk in the canyon bottom. Very nice landscape to explore in Jasper. Wear cleats with your boots and that should be fine. If you are not sure, there are some local tours that goes out daily and they will supply the necessary gear for the adventure."
"On New Years Day, our group of 10 adults and 6 children (6 yrs to 13 yrs old) stopped at the sixth bridge trailhead. Seven of the adults and the six children hiked the trail and the riverbed to the lodge - about 4 km. with icy trails and running water, the hike was arduous but breathtaking."
"Went on a tour with sun dogs & the guides were excellent, views were beautiful, but we did need to do some wiggling around to get down to cave, so do need to be able to do this"
Awesome to hike the canyon bottom in the winter and see the frozen waterfalls. Best to take a guide but if you don't just be very aware of the dangers
"Having seen the Canyon in the summer I decided to take my in-laws to see it during the winter months. It is spectacular! I brought my yacktrax which are normally used for running in the winter but helped us from sliding. This was most useful while walking down into the canyon, as this part is fairly slippery, walking in the canyon itself is not that bad. The view from inside the canyon is spectacular...a must see! Do not waste your money going with a tour group, you can park for free and follow the trail to see the canyon on your own."
"Seriously, when I got to Jasper (alone) I was concerned doing this by myself. I did do by myself and I could find NOTHING that required the need for a guide. Dont waste your money on a tour company, if I had paid $55 for that, I would of been furious. Water ankle deep if you do fall through ( which I didnt). Wear ice cleats and save your money. Several ice climbers so views and pics of canyon hard to take.Canyon was pretty, worth seeing but not grand."
"This walk follows the canyon down. There are a number of distances depending on ability. Some places are steep, but views down into the canyon are great. A must see if in Jasper!"
"Bit treacherous with ice and water terrain. But.....what an adventure! Managed to trek, climb, clammor, ice pick, explore and poke my way through!"
"Longer hike but well worth the effort, cleats a must in winter. The frost and ice build up is truly awe inspiring."
"It had just started snowing and when we did the extended Maligne Canyon walk it felt like were the last people alive on earth. So quiet, peaceful... and no footprints other than animal paws and hooves in the fresh snow!"
"The hike down into the canyon was nice and easy, and once down there the canyon was gorgeous! Huge icicles and walking on the iced over river was definitely an experience! Having a pear of yack-tracks or ice cleats is recommended as the ice can be slippery, so just be careful. We walked the canyon on our own, but if you aren't as adventurous, you can always take a tour!"
"The Canyon is about 11 km from Jasper. The river plunges 23 m into a steep-walled gorge of limestone bedrock,
There are self-guided trails and footbridges that provide spectacular views of the canyon.
A place not to be missed when visiting Jasper Park."
Maligne Canyon is a stunning slot canyon and photographs well on a overcast day. I wish I would have had time to see more of it.
"An absolutely beautiful hike! The views are incredible as they are breathtaking. The fifth bridge is closed but it's still worth going. The difficulty of the trails varies and you can choose to do as much or as little of it as you want. I have hiked it spring, summer and fall and never tire of this truly inspiring place. My daughter has come with us since she was a toddler and loves it as much as we do."
Beautiful both summer and winter. I especially love watching the ice canyon climbers and walking on all the amazing ice formations and caves.
"Waterfalls, Deep Gorges, Potholes and Underground Streams, all gather in one place. The hiking trail is well-maintained with several viewpoints which you can rest and snap a few pictures of this amazing place. The trail is surrounded with fences so that traveller with Acrophobia don't have to worry so much.With only 10km from the town, Maligne Canyon is definitely a muse-see when you are in Jasper."
"Too bad the 5th bridge was closed. It is still a very nice hike - easy, but icy and slippery in the winter. It is like walking through the winter wonder lake. Love it. Very different than in the spring, summer or fall. It season or each time I go it always gives you a different scence and feel and beauty. It is alwYs there waiting for me to discover and I have never been disappointed!!"
"Don't judge a book by its cover. In the middle of nowhere is a mystic place tucked away under a cloak of unsensational advertisement. Bring your hiking boots for this trek though. You may even want a backpack with water, Tylenol, or some muscle rub. Somehow in natures wisdom she did not account for tourists and the countless stairs you'll be climbing in order to see the breadth of this wonder. On the way in it's a breeze. Coming back out you might want to pace yourself. Heart condition? Maybe you should rethink it lol. Is it worth it? In my opinion it is definitely worth it! Probably one of the only places on earth where this kind of beauty doesn't come with a fee.Natural canyon and waterfalls that go on and on. We found a break in the safety fence and climbed down into the canyon itself. It was amazing!!! (if this was illegal, then I was speaking metaphorically-and in no way to I recommend it to others nor take responsibility for your actions).But if I was really down there (it was amazing lol)!"
"There's so much to love. Whether you're walking the paths between the bridges and listening to the water roar past, or trekking the icy stairs in the winter, or even doing an ice hike to see the frozen canyon...beautiful."
nice to see. would be better in summer when it is full of water and stuff. will go back to try the canyon walk on the ice later winter as that will be an interesting experience I believe
"This is a must see. Very safe walk. Beautiful views of this canyon. Followed the trail all the way down, but on the way back somehow we ended up on the other side. It turned out to back a shortcut, but watch when coming back I would have preferred to retrace my steps to get back, more to see."
"The trail follows along the edge of the canyon which starts out very narrow so you're peering down a deep crevice, then it gradually widens with beautiful clear water (rapids and swirling currents) carving the landscape. The trail crosses back and forth across the canyon - we walked down past the 4th bridge before turning around and walking back. You can make this walk as long or short as you want but the scenery just gets better and better as you walk in. The ground is uneven and there are steps and tree roots to contend with so it's not suited to people with mobility issues. It's mainly downhill (gradual) as you walk in but that means it's uphill on the way back so judge your capabilities before going too far. We loved the canyon and thought it was stunning. We stopped here enroute to Maligne Lake and the road between the two is a great spot for spotting wildlife. We saw a bear with two cubs and another 2-3 year old bear right beside the road. Take drinking water as it can get quite hot walking back uphill. Definitely worth a visit."
Be ready to walk down... then back up. But it's worth it. We went after a snow fall so it was a great site. The kids enjoyed it too.
Really enjoyed visiting the canyon. We joined a tour group on this day (as part of a trip to Maligne Lake) and we loved learning about the interesting and unique geological features of the place.
"Nothing truly spectacular here (by that I mean no massive 100 foot falls), but a nice walk with good vantage points scattered along to see the impact on the rocks of a gazzilion years of water flow. The gorge is deep in places, with a myriad of small waterfalls, pools and potholes.There is a food outlet, gift shop and several public toilets too.The length of time you spend here depends upon whether you take a shorter or a longer walk. Certainly, the shorter round trip that we did was not at all onerous."
Great location for a family friendly 1-2 hour hike. You could make it as short or long as you would like depending on how much time you spend exploring the lower canyon. In the lower canyon you can get right down to water level safely for those who want get their feet wet!
"This is a very beautiful and easy hike through the Maligne Canyon. There is a few slippery spots, but there are railings to help you keep upright!"
Lots of walking trails of varying lengths and the ability to walk to see the canyon one way and walk back another so there is more variety. Worth a visit - especially the road from the canyon to Maligne Lake - lots of wildlife.
"Very cool, made for some great photos. Took the shorter of the hikes (travelling with 10 yr old). excellent family activity."
"I went for 2hrs hike with friends. Scenery is amazing over there. Many paths you can choose. Canyon looks great. Very deep. Amazing photo opportunity. We met few ""crazy"" guys kayaking through the canyon. That was awesome. Remember to wear good boots. A must visit place when in Jasper area. You will not regret it."
"A great walk which some amazing canyons to look at, you can so as little or as much as you want, we spent some hours exploring."
"Walked this trail with my Husband and our 2-month-old. We quickly regretted thinking this trail might be stroller-friendly, but it wasnt too bad carrying it over the many stairs, roots, and rock, Was worth the extra effort to see some great waterfalls, different views of the canyon, and an American Dipper to-boot!"
Such a beautiful canyon that has 5 different bridges that you hike to to cross the deep incredibly narrow canyon!
Stunning scenery. Good selection of walks for any ability and the trails we followed were well signposted. Water level was quite low -but still amazing.
"Visited in September 2014, there is a lot of walking on mostly set footpaths. Many waterfalls and twists and turns as the river goes through the canyon, beautiful scenery, bit of a tough uphill trek back, however it was worth it for the photos."
"This was an amazing hike, with exceptional views of the canyon! There are 6 bridges on this hike but bridge 5 was closed when we were there in September. The trail is not rugged and can be easily followed. I can only imagine what the river and waterfalls would be like in spring and early summer when there is lots more water!! Take the time do hike the entire trail, it is well worth the effort!!"
"and we saw bears on the way to the lake. Beautiful scenery and bears. well worth the hour drive. When in jasper, a must"
"The family, 4 boys aged 4-13 enjoyed this walk down the canyon and were interested in the way the river had eroded the landscape. Lots of things to talk about on the way down and up. Not all of us went all the way down to the bottom, too many steps and steepness for very young and knee challenged seniors! Well worth a visit."
Just remember that all the bridges do not have an exit/parking lot so plan your entry/exit point well. #5 bridge was closed when we were there so check on that.
We did a long walk in the neighbourhood of the lake. The best season to visit is at least 1 month later if you want to see the lake in BLUE-colour. Now it was still under thick ice. Remains still a beautifull place to visit.
We started at the 6th bridge and had great hiking with beautiful views until the high heel and bear bell crowd was reached near the main parking lot. Still a worthwhile visit regardless of crowd. Pretty nice gift shop compared to many with some very high end stuff.
"Did a trip with sundog. The guide was abit over the top with information about bears, which we did not see. We stopped along the way and did a walk which we were told was very easy to do. Although very beautiful I found the track a challenge, certainly not see friendly fr my old knees. That said the lake is beautiful and the cafe had a very impressive selection of very nice food, tasty hot soups. Worth taking time to have alook."
"This was a comprehensive and educational experience. We had a great guide who explained the history of the canyon, discussed the wildlife and how the wildlife is being impacted by civilisation. He was enthusiastic and informative."
"Beautiful from the shore line.....however, breathtaking from the boat ride. When you arrive at Sprit Island and look back at all the mountains it took my breath away. My husband and I both were spell bound by the awesomeness of nature. It helped that Mother Nature had provided a couple of inches of snow the day before and it was picture perfect."
"The canyon is worth a visit. You can hike for a couple of hours or do only a small loop around the top. The water carved out an incredible canyon. You can bring kids there and see only the top part, or you can walk right down to the bottom and see small waterfalls and the river. Worth the trip"
"A great walk and very interesting. The walk to bridge 4 was more than enough to enjoy the experience. If you want to see more, drive to the next section."
"The canyon itself is really nice, and the path following it is really scenic and well kept. Small bridges bring you on the very top of the canyon and a multitude of paths lead you down the stream.Free Parking available + gift shop and cafeteria/restaurants.If you have the Grand Canyon in mind, this is a complete different thing: the canyon is few meters large, tiny, but still trilling and scenic, with a lot of natural water pools and colorful waterfalls. However it's not the very first thing to do in Jasper if you only have 1 day."
A very interesting natural phenomena...lots of caves and waterfalls created by years of water flow. Nice hiking area.
"There are several canyons in the Banff- Jasper area. Maligne canyon is nice, but I really liked Johnston canyon in Banff better. If you were in the Jasper area and have several days, you may want to stop here. There are other things I would do first. My favorite areas around Jasper would be the Mount Lady Cavell area and Mount Robson Provincial Park (specifically Kinney Lake). Furthermore if you're going to Spirit Lake, you could easily stop off at Maligne Canyon on the way. I really don't think it necessary to walk the entire trail to get a sense of the place. If you walk bridges 1-3, you will have seen plenty. Also anyone with mobility issues will have some difficulty here. I think those with mobilityissues may be able to access some areas near the giftshop/ teahouse."
"Worth the short hike down to the bridges to see the fascinating rock structures that have been carved. It may only be a couple of yards wide in parts, but may be up to 160 feet deep."
"I wish I could bottle the smell of the Maligne canyon...and pair it with the sound of the falls and the river current. There is a wheelchair accessible path allowing wheelchair guests to enjoy the view. A longer pathway system allows hikers and leisure walkers to move as slowly or as quickly along well marked routes. This is a safe descent or ascent with guardrails along the way. You can pull off the path and enjoy a picnic, and dazzle your eyes, ears and nose with the pure mountain air smells, sights and sounds. We enjoyed deer and squirrels. The autumn colours were a breathtaking backdrop to the varying colours of the water. Spend as much or as little time here as you like. There is a teahouse to enjoy (but we spent a long time hiking and the teahouse was closed at 5). Wear sturdy shoes and bring your camera. This attraction is free of charge"
The Canyon has had the H&S treatment and although it detracts a little from the natural beauty it is necessary because those with mobility issues would really struggle otherwise.We had called at the mouth of the river and bridge six in the car on the way up and whilst pretty was nothing in comparison to the Canyon head. I did the walk to bridge four and back (bridge five was closed for environmental work) and would have to say the area around bridge three was the prettiest. The river is a long way down at bridges 1 & 2 (about 51 meters down) but the evidence of erosion is obvious. Also 1 & 2 were busiest because they were closest to the large car park at the top. Here you will also find toilets and gift shop/cafe and the coach park.Down at bridge three there are some steep steps but it is well worth the effort and I would recommend this to anybody who doesn't struggle climbing the stairs at home.
"The short 3 bridge route was very busy, and the whole route is health and safety railed in taking away from the beauty. But if you go as far as you can (bridge 5 was closed) you leave the crowds behind and have a chance at spotting some wildlife. By the time you reach the valley floor you can have a play in the river."
"Several walks along the canyon, its worth dropping down to bridge 5 from the car park. Can only say spectacular rock formations and waterfalls and its free."
Loved the dramatic scenery and the rushing water down the canyon. The steps were quite steep on the walk down so we took the alternative path back. This meant a more gradual walk up hill back to the car park. Fifth bridge was closed so that was as far as we went.
"Unbelievable natural phenomena, close to town. The tour bus folks keep the trail busy on bridges 1 and 2 (which accesses a terrific gift shop with the best selection of books we found touring). After that however, hiking to bridges 3, 4, 6 (5 is closed) is wonderfully quiet, private so you can take pictures and just listen to the power of the water. It's simply spectacular. The hike is super easy throughout, low elevations overall and there are interpretive signs along the way; in fact the best we found between Banff and Jasper. I don't think you could ever get tired of walking this canyon trail and I'd love to return in the winter for the Ice Hike they offer!"
"October is probably too late as the water level is low. As you trek down along the canyon, the best part is at the beginning. Good free place to visit."
"This canyon, involving a medium-length hike along the canyon trail, should not be missed while in Jasper. The trail is mildly strenuous for us 60+ hikers, but is well laid out to permit viewing the canyon from many different overlooks. The scenery along and in the canyon is quite stunning."
We enjoyed the walk and the views of the falls. Beautiful scenery. We finished off at the cafe with a coffee. Well worth a visit.
"this was a fun and pretty trail along the river, but I wish we had started at the bottom and hiked UP instead of the other way around. There is a pretty good elevation change. The views are really nice. There are several bridges crossing the river along the trail. At the top of the trail the river cuts deep gorges in the rock; very interesting. Take the time to see this if you are in the area"
Lovely walk up the canyon with some very impressive waterfalls. Sadly as with some other trails the best views aren't always possible due to how the paths have been laid out (i.e. further than needed from the river)Do it from bridge 6 up so that the return trip is easy.
"Going in the Fall helped to avoid crowds. Canada has definitely made viewing the canyon a great experience with the bridges over the canyon and the well kept trail. In the canyon we marveled at the narrowness of the canyon, its depth, as well as the varying colors of the water, rocks, and plants."
We went down this canyon on a very hot day and although the waterfalls and canyon are very special the trek back up was challenging in the heat and it was very difficult even though I am relatively fit and healthy. We took some great photo's though.
Loved it and got many gorgeous photos of waterfalls. Lots of viewing platforms along the way. Long walk though make sure you take water. Lovely gift shop there with some excellent DVD's and other souvenir items. Not to be missed if you are in the area.
Its an easy walk to beautiful scenery and a waterfall - Be sure to make time for this stop while in Jasper.
We walked from Bridge 6 to the Tea House (really a restaurant) and back and loved it. The views are spectacular and it is a fairly easy walk.
"A great destination on a rainy or overcast day. There are several waterfalls and deep slot canyons. There are several crossings and parking areas to start you hike. Be sure to stop at the teahouse at the top,"
"It's possible to see some great scenery from a number of different viewpoints even if you are not fit enough to walk to all the bridges.We didn't see any wild-life, but we did see some ""endangered species"" ... idiot tourists (mainly young Americans) who insisted on climbing the safety rails thereby polluting the view for us safety-conscious camera addicts.PS. The gift/souvenir shop has some interesting art/native artifacts."
"A short trip from Jasper you can find the Maligne Canyon, a beautifully carved canyon with depths of up to 50 metres. It makes it extra special and spectacular, because some passages are so narrow that the water has to push itself between the rocks. Our visit was early May 2014 and there was still a lot of ice stuck to the sides of the walls, sometimes up to 25 metres high. The tracks are very well maintained. Lots of steps, up and down, but easy to go over. There are different lengths of walks for different ages as well. The signs are clear. And for us, after a cold winter walk, where it started snowing as well and turned the whole area white again, the restaurant at the start of the canyon offered a very nice hot soup!"
A series of waterfalls and interesting geology as well as the narrow canyon make this a great visit. The path criss-crosses the canyon and I suggest that you keep going for the entire length of the canyon - many people give up early on and miss some of the best bits.
This is an amazing place ... Relatively unspoiled by the traffic and road. Only regret is there were no bears :-(
"A stunningly beautiful place, Maligne Canyon has so much to offer. From the depth of the canyon, with the waterfalls and rapids sparkling far below, to the streams of water pouring in from the underground water system and the tumbling of water over rocks in the quieter parts of the river. We did a terrific walk from the falls end right through to the 6th bridge. Not a hard walk and so enjoyable. I highly recommend you put this on your list of must-dos in Jasper."
This is well worth the coach ride to see such beautiful scenery. We were also lucky seeing some of the wild life such as elk dear and a very friendly squirrel .
"We had a beautiful day for our trip on the lake. Sun shining on the water. An interesting tour with a lovely guide who told us about the area, all the surrounding mountains. The end of their season but you would never know, obviously love their job"
The canyon is absolutely amazing. It is a long walk with lots of stairs and inclines. If you have respiratory issues and are out of shape go slowly and remember you have to walk uphill to get back and there are tons of inclines.
"Brilliant walk down canyon with lots different waterfalls and beautiful blue green, white ice melt water, lovely wooded area, different bridges to see and view from and birds and plants all the way along. Some steepish steps but well maintained and very accessible for most walkers and not too crowded as people tend to spread out, good parking near pathways and different trails to take if want more."
Water runs down through a steep crevice in the rock. There is a path alongside which is steep although there are handrails. The walk back up is hard going. Probably not worth walking all the way to the end.
A lovely walk down and back with lovely mountain views towards the bottom and a very varied river view along the way with falls and whirlpools and interesting rock formations. A steep walk back but not too tiring. Get there early as it does get crowded and the path is quite narrow alongside the river. Very much worth a visit and better than Athabasca and most definitely better than Sunwapta Falls
"Try walking to the 'fifth bridge'. Its a good walk, mainly downhill but remember its a slog back to the main car park. The falls really are a must and the colours seem unnatural. Can be a bit muddy after bridge four."
If you love natural things then this one is quite simply super amazing as it took 10's of thousands of years for water and bits of sand to cave out this canyon gourge.
Maligne Lake has to be one of the most beautiful places on the planet !!! Easy hike from car park to Mousse Lake. We saw Mouse in swimming and a black bear. Cant get better than that. Pack a lunch before heading up there and make a dy of it
"If you only have time to see one thing in jasper, make it this! Breathtaking. There are no words to describe it. Just go. Several well marked trail loops. We opted for the long one (red one on map). It was a lovely hike and very scenic. No trouble navigating. Even if you aren't a hiker only a couple minutes in you can see the stunning canyon."
"A bit of a steep hike in parts, but well worth the views. We enjoyed starting at the 6th bridge and doing a round trip walk. Decent food at the tea house before our return. We took the middle trail on the way up and returned closer to the creek on the way back."
"The Maligne Canyon is fantastic to see, each year it gets deeper. In some spots you can just hear the roar of the water raging through it. The best time of the year to see it is in the spring run off, Remember if you go to all 6 bridges, you have to climb back up!"
"Done this trip both winter and summer and it's completely different being at the top looking down and being (with a guide) at the bottom looking up. Don't miss it. Amazing, the power of water!"
"Maligne Road: This 50 km drive is worth it for animal spotters and photographers. There are multiple little turnouts to stop at. Patience is key! If you stop at a turnout and don’t see anything, just wait 10 minutes. You are bound to see some wildlife, whether it’s a wolf, eagle or deer.Maligne Canyon: My best recommendation is to start at the 6th bridge and work your way up, that way your path back to your car is all downhill. When we went the 5th bridge was closed, but you can still proceed up the 4th. There is a small area that is really narrow, so be careful. Also watch out for the mountain bikes since they share most of the same path as the hikers. Gorgeous views all throughout."
"Magnificent! You start at the top and walk down to the bottom of the canyon. The first bridge with the view of the canyon is about a 30 minute walk. The trails all have iron railings. If you like hiking you don't want to miss this. From downtown Jasper, it's about a 20 minute drive."
Awesome canyon with nice waterfalls throughout! A walk down the path to see all the bridges is worth it - although a trek to get back to the top. The Teahouse has a nice little cafeteria and has fairly decent prices. The little gift shop has some items you don't see in other touristy places.
We spent a few hours visiting the Canyon. It is breathtakingly beautiful. One can also enjoy hiking around there while going to all the bridges. A must see in the area.
"The canyon carver by the river is up to 30 meters deep ad twisting. You need to pass four bridges to see the best of the canyon and this takes some climbing and about one hour, but it is worth it"
Try and make the effort to go all the way to the bottom - if you do that you will get some peace and quiet away from the busloads.
"There are a number of short trails at Maligne Canyon, all are great depending on your ability. We did the longest trek to 6th bridge Nd it was really great. Some areas you were alone with no other tourists around, some really fabulous views, wooded areas and trails by the river and waterfalls. Really pretty and a very worth while trek."
"Maligned canyon was beautiful. A little crowded and a bit of a hike. On the way back to the car we wound up on the opposite side of the canyon where there aren't any fences, be careful if you walk on this side! BRING WATER!"
"Truly beautiful. The sound of falling water surrounded in wilderness, with safe walking trails. Do need some degree of mobility to go from bridge 2 thru bridge 4 and back. At a few points you can make your way down to the water and put in your hand. The water is very clean, cold and tastes really sweet. As must do.There is a gift shop and small place to eat but it is not always open."
The scenery here was splendid. Albeit we visited in may 2013 when it was rather damp and a little cold. Spirit Island is well worth the small boat trip - magical and also a sight of the Spiral Tunnels (I think that was the same day on the coach?). And the Athabasca Glacier with it's great ice coaches is fantastic ( but cold and snowy in May 2013)
"I enjoyed Maligne Canyon, and my rating is relative to other Banff/Jasper attractions--otherwise it is fantastic. We did not plan on stopping here, but our planned trip to Mt. Edith Cavell fell through due to a mudslide that washed out the road, so we had some time to kill. The canyon is very deep and complex. As river below carves its way through the rocks, it is fun to see it tumble down intricate drops. I would rank this canyon higher than Johnston in Banff, but not as high as some other North American gorges/canyons (e.g. Watkins Glen). I would not make a day out of this visit, but if you have some time it is worth a stop."
"Not really impressed, just another place of attraction. The trail is easy, but views are ok. This place has a great restaurant, one could enjoy food here."
we only did the simple walk and did this comfortably. Canadian ideas about walks can sometimes we more like a hike - they are a very fit nation. definitely worth a visit.
"The views into the canyon are magnificent. there's a lovely gift shop - very expensive sculptures ($600,000.00) on display, a brilliant snack bar. I fed a cookie to a chipmunk - excellent!!"
"This is a popular trail, so get there early. Pretty canyon with beautiful water and views. If you are going to walk along the canyon, park at the lot by the hostel take the trail 7 along the canyon after a while, you will come to a major junction where you can take 7f back. You avoid some steepness on the way back and still get some views of the canyon."
"Bridges 1 to 5 are within about 2km of each other, making for an interesting and beautiful walk along the Canyon (4km round trip). Bridge 6 is quite a bit further on if you want to do a bigger loop. Our plan was to park at bridge 5, walk to the cafe just by the falls, near bridge 1, have refreshments and then walk back. Unfortunately, on arriving at bridge 5 carpark it became clear the bridge was missing. There was no indication when, or if, this will be re-instated. We therefore drove to the top car park and walked down as far as bridge 5, before turning back and walking to the top for refreshments. There are signs along the way describing the landscape and you can walk on both sides of the canyon in places meaning you can cross or not cross at some of the bridges. Watching the water flow beside you is beautiful and the paths, though rugged, are well marked."
"There are six bridges to cross over the canyon that give a remarkable view of the canyon below. A tea house stands at the end of the parking kot where you can get a snack (the artwork and statues are WAY overpriced - a jade bear was $1,000,000). All in all, it was a very pleasant two hours."
"We almost did not go as this was after a great, long hike up the Bald Hill but glad we did. We were going to start at the bottom, bridge 6 and walk up and then down but started at the top. It was a rainy day so there were not as many visitors there as there may be on good days, it was still busy though. It is a beautiful spot but go early or late to avoid all the visitors. It is not a trail for baby strollers (yes we saw some, being carried)"
My husband was unable to walk down to the canyon. While the path is paved it is quite steep. A beautiful place!
Only a short drive from jasper and an amazing place to see and hear. Lots of space so you don't feel to crowded with other tourists.
"This was the first time here. Another tourist told us about this place and ""wow"" is all I can say. Not an easy hike but well worth it. The weather was not nice so we didn't do the whole thing."
"To truly enjoy this beautiful place on earth, you must set aside 2 to 3 hours to walk down beside the canyon and back up again. There are several bridges that to cross over the canyon to provide fabulous views well above the floor where the water is rushing below. We visited in September, when the water is less than what it would be in May for example when the snow is all melting. I have also had occasion to visit this beautiful spot in February when everything is frozen including the waterfall. This is nature at its best. There is ample parking as well as a teahouse and gift shop. It is a very busy tourist spot though. Be prepared to walk a great distance if you want to really enjoy as much as possible of the canyon. Walking down beside the canyon is easy. Walking back up, if you parked at the uppermost parking lot, not so easy. Make sure you're in good physical condition!"
An absolutely beautiful place. Allow plenty of time to hike the entire circuit. If you cannot it is still worth going since there is a short loop that takes about 20 minutes to walk.
"It is quite a popular hike/ spot with plenty of visitors in some places and especially around the main waterfalls area (Bridges 1 to 3). For me however it is still very much worth seeing regardless of the crowds, it is so interesting! We started our hike in the opposite direction than most tours, going uphill along Trail No 7h through some forest areas (watch out as some parts are very steep here, with no rocks, few tree roots, only soil, and easy to slip without good boots). We then walked towards Bridge 5 which was closed at the time, so we headed towards the canyon taking the main trail with the 4 remaining bridges. The hike was not challenging, only steep in some parts as mentioned. The views were really lovely - first from the forest to the valley and then onto the pretty Athabasca River as you walk along its shores. As the canyon walls were getting higher, we were more and more in awe of this place - i hope you don't have to be a real geology geek to really appreciate this nature's wonder :) The views closer to bridges 1-3 and all the waterfalls are probably most spectacular, but we were really glad we took the time to do the whole hike and appreciate the lower parts of the canyon/ river as well. It was raining (even heavily at times) when we were there and it didn't ruin our experience. If I could change something, I'd probably like to have more time in there and check out the lovely tea room as well."
"An easy walk downstream above the deep and narrow canyon with the river tumbling over falls and rapids. Fences keep you off the cliff edges, but they don't impede the views. In August the lower bridge was closed so the walk is all on OK be side of the river."
What an excellent walk...we spent 3 hours here and the scenery was amazing! there were waterfalls and mountain peaks along with the most beautiful views possible. A must see!!!
"This is definitely a unique natural wonder. After a trip to Johnston Canyon the previous week, I was assuming that the Lake Maligne Canyons would resemble the Banff attraction in terms of walkways over fast-flowing river. It is that, but in my opinion, it was much more than that—and consequently—more interesting. My tour book suggested we start at bridge 6 via a spur off the main road, but we chose to park in the very large parking lot area and make our way down the trail from the beginning. The 73-year old member of our party took a few steps and turned back as she realized the walk would involve steep hills and the altitude had already left her breathless. A well-meaning passer by also cautioned her by mentioning that every step down meant a step back up—thanks ?. Having said that, while our older hiker turned back, our very active 3-year old was able to walk to bridge 4 without assistance. It got too steep for her and other members of our group before bridge 5 and we turned around (darn). As mentioned, this is a canyon walk, but the depth of the canyon and the narrow chasm between the rock walls are awe-inspiring. The colors of the fauna along with the small trees emerging from various spots along the rock walls elicited several oohs and ahs from my family and more than one time my kids said it reminded them of Disneyland—sigh. Overall, I found this location several times more interesting than Johnston Canyon. Do be careful if you’re planning on bringing an elderly person along on this hike."
"We walked down a well maintained trail alongside beautiful Maligne Canyon. There were numerous bus tours there as well at 9 am but after the first 2 bridges in the canyon, the bus tours left and we had the rest of the lovely trail and the canyon pretty much to ourselves. This is an easy trail and well worth going on."
"Great place, lovely walks, amazing gorge and good in winter apparently as it freezes.
Highly recommended."
The bridges at Malign Canyon provide wonderful views of the canyon and waterfalls. The trek is fairly easy and extremely worthwhile.
"Beautiful views, took about 100 photos. Great guide. The Lake is gorgeous, the boat drops you off at one point and walking around the shore gives a fantastic view."
"Starting from the top, the canyon has many bridges as you walk downhill. For older folk, it is worth viewing from at least the second bridge down. A very deep crevice down to a very fast flowing rocky riverbed with extremely forceful water falls, is worth the climb back up. Railings, and steps assist your uphill climb back to the car park. Another sight to enjoy in the beautiful wilderness of Jasper National Park,."
The Malign Canyon and lake area is beautiful. So many great photo ops and definitely worth a visit. Early morning visit gave us great pictures with almost no one else around. Also saw some bears on the drive down.
This is one of the options if you stay in Jasper for a few days. Well worth investing a day in a trip down the canyon to Maligne Lake.
"I was too scared to look into the canyon, but yet I can tell you from what I did see the views were amazing and worth stopping off for"
You are missing out if you do not take this in. this can be a beautiful short or long walk; rain or shine. Bring your camera.
"Love all the bridges, if you are super fit and want to do all the bridges you have quite the hill to travel up to get to the parking lot, if you want more of a stroll there are still lots of bridges to explore."
"I went there on winter, but I couldn't do the ice walk, on summer I went there also, this time biking, the scenary is spectacular and the trails are incredible for downhill enthusiasts."
"We couldn't do much hiking as we visited in winter and theres was lots of snow, but managed to still make it through walk for beautiful views of the canyon. Stop at all the bridges on way back up the road as they all offer great photo oppurtunities."
"This is a must to do thing in Jasper. Moderate hike and you can make it short or long, based on your abilities"
"Beautiful refreshing hike and awesome sights to see, good exercise and clean fresh air. Amazing natural attraction"
You don't realize how massive and majestic this canyon is until you start walking along the trail that seems to go on forever. We didn't expect to walk as far as we did but it was gorgeous the whole way. We'd love to go back and do the whole trail. Like most sites the first bridge area is busy with tourists but the further you walk along the trail the more tranquil it gets. Don't miss this spot!
"This was a fairly easy hike, a lot of it was paved and the scenery was amazing! It's a popular spot for tourists because it's very accessible. There is a restaurant on-site as well."
"This is an intermediate hike if you go downhill to all bridges, then use the maps to hike back up the loop to the parking lot again. If you use 7h path, it's a great trek back up (and some great exercise) with a spectacular view as you go up. Not a hike if you are a serious hiker and are expecting a challenge. Perfect for light exercise and killing a couple hours."
This is such a beautiful area. Great hike and if your a photographer you would definitely love maligned canyon
Nice views and a good hike. Good place to visit. Not as popular as other sites but definitely worth seeing. And free!
"The torrents of water pounding through the Canyon literally takes your breath away, helped by mountain rains & spring snow melt. Well worth the side trip, seeing a couple of bears close up, mountain sheep... so much water!!!"
"Went on a guided hike of the canyon with a tour guide. We were driven up to First Bridge and hiked down to Sixth Bridge. This was a relatively easy hike, one slight ascent but mostly downhill. The views are beautiful, a large gorge, waterfalls, rapids, great views, some wildlife. This should not be missed!"
You start off at the gift shop / restaurant and walk down the trail. The way the Maligne Canyon is carved out out the rock by the water is spectacular. We did not have enough time to walk the entire trail. It would take 4 to 5 hours to see and appreciate the scenic beauty.
The site of the Canyon Maligne is really extremely beautiful and offer numerous spectacular points of view. Paths are very easy to walk. A magnificent place to be discovered.
this was one of the best hikes... Loved the karst system and all the geological aspects of the hike. Just do it. you will not regret it.
We didn't know what to expect but this is a really nice walk - as long as you want to make it (up to about 6 miles!) - it follows a gorge cut through the limestone by the river and gives a real sense of how the river has worked its way down through the different strata. Lots of good views down into the gorge and plenty of strange and interesting rock & tree formations to look at. Fascinating place.
"A incredible photo waits around every bend. Unlike some other Jasper sites, the canyon is easily accessible from parking lot and a short ride from Jasper. By all means, include this in you must do activities."
Easy access to the canyon and its bridges. You can start in the main lot walk down to five or more of the bridges then head back and stop for tea located right off the main lot.
"This is a great little walk that gives you good views of this amazing, narrow canyon. Seeing the volume of water moving through such a narrow canyon is awesome. Take the walk through the abandoned part of the canyon and just imagine what it must have looked like when all the water was flowing through it."
We didn't have much time so we only did the walk down to the third bridge but it was very well worth it. The views of these falls from both sides of the canyon were incredible. It is a very easy walk to just go down to the third bridge.
This amazing canyon has to be on every visitors list. It wasn't too busy while we were there but it could get a lot busier. The short 2k loop is very do-able but the 4k loop is recommended even more.
Never seen something like this before. Beautiful falls and the loop was a greatly planned to build up the sequence of following the origin of the water. Worth the visit.
was good for a visit. we only stayed there for about half hour but enjoyed the views. only say squirells no other wildlife
Lovely walk quite cold in the shade of the trees. Make sure you have good footwear and don't forget your camera - amazing
"This was a very scenic location, the walk up to the canyon was not to hard going and there are wonderful photo opportunities.
Car parking was not a problem and there are rest areas for you to visit when you have finished your walk"
"Just like Johnston Canyon in Banff Natl Park, this canyon was incredible. Nice exercise, lots of stairs. Gets very crowded with tourists."
"Very crowded, but that is to be expected. IT is a beautiful canyon, very deep and narrow in places. Not well marked and it would be easy to miss the best parts towards the top."
"This isn't the lake but a gorge above Medicine Lake and as such is not a standout in itself.
Nice to see the geology and our guide, Brian, was very knowlegable.
This was a nice stop on the way to Maligne Lake itself."
"Worth taking the walk along the river, especially if hot as you get the shade from the trees and then ending up at the canyon itself."
If you are up for a longer adventure start at the Sixth Bridge parking area and hike south through the canyon. There are fewer people and the hike back is downhill though you will be going 4-5 miles round trip. The canyon itself is stunning with interesting vistas around each corner. And after seeing the hoards at Lake Louise and Johnston Canyon near Banff this place seemed empty even on a Sunday at noon.
This is a lovely walk which takes you to a variety of different bridges which are at different heights of the canyon. It is a very long walk if you do the whole route but there are various shortcuts you can take so just be sure to know which trail you are taking before you set off. We really enjoyed seeing all of the different sights along the way and would definitely recommend a stop off here!
We went as part of a guided tour so didn't have as much time as we would have liked.Nice walking lovely canyon paved on the area we were walking with fossils in the stone.
"nice place to visit, if you go with children you have to carry them with harness, so I thing it's not good for children, just a few walking"
"We only had one morning in Jasper and were pleased we decided to walk the Maligne Canyon. Unfortunately, one of the bridges had been washed away so we had to go to bridge 1. However, it was a beautiful walk which we thoroughly enjoyed."
"Visited this with my family and we hiked around. People of all ages were hiking there so it was well travelled and relatively easy. I was nervous about bears but given the amount of foot traffic was quickly put at ease. I would recommend starting at Maligne Lake then doing Medicine Lake and ending with Maligne Canyon, so you understand the flow of the water. We did it in the reverse but think it would be cooler to do it in the order I recommended."
"What a beautiful site. Booked a tour from Viator for Maligne Canyon, Maligne Lake, Medicine Lake and Spirit Island. Our guide Deter was great."
"Another place to visit that is so beautiful. Only thing is when you are on the highway and think you will see a sign that says Maligne Canyon, you won't I think it says Maligne Lake or something, yep I drove right on by. Worth seeing though and I couldn't even see the coffee shop this time again better signage is needed."
"There are longer walks but if time constrained this is a good stop.
Also, if out on the road around dawn (we were there about 7.15) you may increase your chances of seeing some locals - we spotted a wolf this morning."
"The parking lot was full when we got there and we had to wait a few minutes for a spot.Once this was over, the hike down the canyon trail was truly magnificent, and the crowds were smaller than we anticipated.We did bridges 1 to 3 plus a little, because bridge 4 was closed temporarily.The trail is well maintained and the views along it are amazing. The powerful water over the years has carved this beautiful little accessible canyon. The carved canyon walls are smooth and inviting. The little waterfalls along the trail are pretty and very different from each other.The hike is easy, with a little climb on the way back up, but with lots of places to stop, take in the scenery and rest..... Maligne Canyon is certainly one of the highlights of Jasper National Park and is a MUST!!! Don't Miss It!!!"
"This is one of those places on the list of things to see that you must tick off. It is not somewhere to visit so that you can take home a whole load of amazing pictures, although I took several pictures. Instead it is somewhere you need to come and experience for yourself, to marvel at the way the water has carved the canyon down over the years, and to hear the rushing of the water deep below. Yes, it is a popular tourist spot. As we left the car park at 12.30 there were people waiting for our car parking space and others parked along the road at the entrance to the car parking lot. So we didn't have as much time here as originally planned and therefore didn't manage to hike as far as we'd hoped. We only say bridges 1 through 3. However we enjoyed what we saw and I found the information boards really helpful in explaining the different things we could see...i.e. chock stones and different types of erosion!"
The walk along Maligne is beautiful and an easy hike for families. The views of the river are spectacular. We have also done the river in winter when it is frozen. Being able to look at it in the summer and compare the trips is the best.
"The river flowing through the canyon starts out just several yards below the trail and at times cannot even been seen, the canyon beomes so deep. A 45 minute roundtrip walk to the Fourth Bridge is sufficient to get an appreciation of the Canyon. A walk to the bottom would probably take 2 hours, but it uphill all the way back. An absolute must see if in the Jasper area,"
"This was the first side trip we took near Jasper. It's jammed with people so plan to be patient and understanding of everyone else's needs. Scenery was ok in general, but with so much to see in Jasper I'd say average, I almost think Marble Canyon in Kootenay was better, and we were basically the only people there. It's a must do since it's so accessible but then again that's the trouble."
nice boat ride around lake and given a lot of information about the area. Nice walking trail by the beautiful lake.
"The canyon trail is close to Jasper and was jammed with hikers the day we went there. I would have preferred hiking further out to avoid the jostling. The canyon is impressive, but not as awe-inspiring as hoped."
We enjoyed this hike and it gets better as you take the trail away from the main fenced in areas. Be aware that this is a popular tourist spot where the big tour buses are dropped off so get there early and go farther along the trail. Doing this will provide awesome views of rushing waters and peace.
"Beautiful, safe view of the canyon. We had limited time, so started at the restaurant end, bridge one/two, and hiked down to bridge four and back out. Bridge five was closed the day we went. This canyon is worth seeing, and the upper part of the hike is accessible even for those who are not hikers."
"I went in the evening, probably around 6pm. There were several families there, but it wasn't at all busy. Walk the trail! Lots of stairs, so not particularly accessible, but the bridges are awesome and give you great views of the amazing canyon! It's deep and getting deeper all the time. There are places where you can feel the water spray your face. This was onevof my favorite Jasper stops."
Stopped briefly for photo opportunities on the way to the stunning Lake Maligne. Followed by a lovely cruise on the lake to spirit island. Scenery and facilities were superb
"We took a hike all the way to Sixth Bridge and back, with a lunch break near the bridge. The walk offers a lot of variation as you walk away from the canyon itself, as it changes into forest. Very much worth the effort, but make sure you pack your lunch."
"We started at 6th bridge and walked the trail up to 1st bridge (bridge 5 was out, not a big deal) had we known, we could have gone down the road a ways and picked up the trail there to walk a shorter part of the trail we may have done that, however, it was great exercise and we had the time. We followed the directions that were in a visitor's guide book. The closer we got to 1st bridge the more people. Between 6th bridge and 5th bridge, we were wishing we had brought bear bells with us. It was very quite. The falls and the canyon are very beautiful, consider this hike if you are in the area. The metal guardrail along the way was very helpful for some of the steeper portions; if it was at all rainy the trial would have been slippery as the path is very rocky and lots of clay. We are slow walkers and took lots of pictures, we did this trail in about 3 hours round trip. There is a picnic area and outhouse by 6th bridge and a restaurant, bathrooms with running water and outhouses also at 1st bridge. I was glad we did this hike earlier in the day, it was very comfortable walking as the temperature that day was up to 30C."
It is always amazing to see the power of water and this is a great place to do so. There are numerous bridges but the fifth bridge is currently closed and washed away. The rest of the walk is really nice and beautiful. It's amazing how far below the river actually is in parts and at one point there is a nice waterfall across the way.
"A limestone canyon connected to medicine lake 15kms away by a cave system.This is well worth walking down as far as you have time for. I went way past where I was recommended as I felt I was being lured further to explore. Luckily I'm a fast walker down & back up! At time the angle was 35 degrees.The rocks have amazing colours, there is such a depth in this canyon for the water to gush through. The vegetation & ice sections created stunning scenes of what nature can do."
"Don't be afraid to go here, it actually is even more spectaculat hen it sounds. The river has really bitten its way in the rock and via a few bridges you can walk the canyon on both sides and look into it (and on a hot day get a refreshing spray). Busy but ok and don't forget to do the walk completely and to start in the right corner of the parking lot (close to the restaurant)."
"Beautiful hiking trail. Astonishingly beautiful. Bring fluids and snacks so you can do the entire trail, it's well worth the time."
"This is a magnificent area to not only view the fabulous, at times ""LOUD"" falls but also to walk to the numerous bridges and take in the scenery. At the top there are A LOT of tourists but as you walk deeper into the canyon they decrease!The top part of the canyon is the prettiest!You don't have to walk ALL the bridges but we decided to keep walking - Bridge 5 was out BUT we followed the 'by pass' and ended up at Bridge 6 and sat on the picnic tables and viewed the area!On the return journey we took 'the high' road - this is easier (a bit quicker) and gives an elevated view/perspective of the canyon! Near the car park/beginning of walk we saw a mother Black Bear and her twins - such a thrill! Obviously not to the Bear as she 'put' the twins out of harms way UP A TREE!!"
"You will be hard pressed to find a more beautiful place in the Canadian Rockies. I the summer the Maligne river consistently cuts a deeper and deeper canyon. The walk along the canyon can go from a simple stroll to a very strenuous hike, depending on your ambition. In the winter the river freezes and the falls turn to ice. Walking and climbing in the frozen canyon is a very memorable experience. Only minutes from the Jasper townsite, this is a spot not to miss."
A few too many tourists but a great walk through an amazing canyon. Bridge 5 was out so the hike was a little shorter than expected
Beautiful to follow the River and it's waterfalls down the canyon with an energetic walk/run back up!! Nice workout for the athletically minded.
"We had a day to spare in Jasper so went for a drive to Maligne lake. On the way we saw Eagles in a nest, A Grizzly bear and cub and a black bear.We just had a walk and looked at the scenery but there were other things to do if you wanted to spend more time"
This was perfectly fine as a place to stop along the road but not necessarily a destination in and of itself. Not a good place for photos but interesting geology.
Scenery was beautiful!! Would recommend a stop here! Was not as crowded as some of the other places and some nice areas to pull off and take some pictures.
Really worth the walk to the 3rd or 4th bridges. The falls are spectacular. Don't forget to walk the 1st bridge as well. It's easy to miss and you can start at bridge 2 and not even know it.
"We stopped on our way from Edmonton to Jasper. It was a lovely break. The canyon is amazing! We walked down pass the 4th bridge but not all the way to the 5th bridge. And it was a workout for unfit me to go back up. (I think if I went back, I'd start at the 5th or 6th bridge and walk up first, have a little snack at the top, then walk back down.)"
We went here with a Tour guid you can book in the city called Walk & Talk. The canyon was still frozen but it startet to melt. It was very pretty and we heard a lot of interesting stories.
"A lovely clean, fresh, beautiful place to be. This glacier lake is well worth the trip with beautiful scenery. The boat trip was great with a lovely gift shop and restaurant."
"Not only is the 1st bridge the high point of a route which descends crossing 5 other bridges along the way, it is also an underwhelming highlight of a below average attraction. Perhaps I'm being a tad harsh. Or maybe it's because those who rate this as a ""must do"" in Jasper as not the same people who would enjoy a half day hike up to somewhere more spectacular like Bald Hills or Opal Hills, a stop at Medicine Lake or even canoeing on Maligne Lake. Whatever the reason I believe there are much more enjoyable ways to spend a few hours in Jasper and was left really disappointed by my trip here. The canyon is incredibly deep which is impressive to think water has carved this huge gap in the rocks but it does not make for great photographs or experience when attempting to view the flowing water that can be heard.My partner and I also visited Johnston Canyon in Banff and for us Maligne Canyon did not come close.Additionally, I have no idea why some people suggest to start hiking from the sixth bridge as there is virtually nothing to see between the fifth and sixth bridges. If you must visit this attraction be sure to start/finish at the 5th bridge or else begin at the 1st and do not go any further than the 5th."
Can encourage visitors to take the trip. It was peaceful and photo opportunities in abundance. Short stop at Spirit Island was nice and got some shots of squirrels scampering around.
"We started at the 6th bridge and hike up the canyon, so we avoided the crowds for most of our hike (and got to go downhill the second half of the hike!). There is a loop hike, and we took trail 7 up the canyon, and then took 7H back - I recommend that loop rather than the opposite, because 7H was incredibly steep! Great hike!"
"Very popular and can be crowded - so plan accordingly. Earlier in day probably better. The signs are not super user-friendly, however. Starting from the parking lot, you head downhill to the second bridge - an easy 5 mins. There, you can cross the canyon, and return to the parking lot uphill across the first bridge. Pretty easy, paved walk - 30 mins if you take in the views. At the second bridge you can continue downhill to the third bridge (about another 10 mins downhill). Great views at the third bridge...but a pretty steep return (you can cross to the other side and return or come back the way you came). We retraced our steps - it is a pretty steep return - 100 plus steps. We saw a number of folks having trouble on the return - for avid hikers, it should be no problem, however. You can continue on further along the canyon if you like, but as we had some non-hikers, the 3 bridge option was enough."
"We enjoyed the stroll down to the third bridge and back. Very deep canyon and you can really feel a drop in temperature from the water at some points (welcome on a hot summer's day). If you are travelling through Banff and Jasper, I would say that Johnston Canyon was my preferred of the two as you can get closer to the water, but Maligne seemed more dramatic as the canyon is much narrower and deeper."
"Hiked from Bridge 6 up to Bridge one and back. Took us about 2.5 hours with two kids and a bit of stop for sandwiches. Loved the hike and dipped our feet in the river a few times. Would have started at bridge 5 but it washed away a few years ago so don't try to start there as you can't cross the river. If you are wanting an easier hike and to see it all start at Bridge 1 and go to 6. Then have someone pick you up there, or call a cab to take you back."
We walked this canyon with our two boys 7 and 9. Started in top car park and walked down to 4th bridge. Great walk and shady on a hot day. There are 2 points to start the track so be sure to take the one next to the Shop/Chalet one way as it has a great view of river and the start of the canyon. If you just enter from the right of the car park you can miss this altogether and it is worth it.
An easy trip out from Jasper. Medicine and Maligne Lakes are superb. Plenty of walking or easy access from the road.
"Absolutely stunning!! I wasn't sure what to expect as I hadn't read reviews but my friend had already walked through here with her family. There are 6 bridges and multiple signs with maps posted. We just winged and walked. We ended up walking from #1 - #6 omitting #5 as it was closed. I believe that there and back, it was about 8 or 9 km. For the first half (the most spectacular of the hike) you mostly go down into the canyon. Trail is clearly marked and railings and fences up to keep things as safe as possible. There are benches along the way to rest as well. Don't forget to bring water!!Recommendation if you plan to walk/hike all of the bridges - start or park at #6 instead of #1. Saves the most strenuous part of the hike for the middle instead of the end. Totally worth every minute spent!"
"We were just looking for an easy ramble before dinner so we drove up to Maligne Canyon thinking we'd spend an hour poking around. The canyon is deep and spectacular, and the walkway isn't far from the car park. You're unlikely to see much wildlife on the drive up, but we did encounter some mule deer on our way back into town."
Beautiful. Easy to get to. Simple walk if you take your time. Free! Short drive from Jasper. Restaurant and gift shop on property.
Do not miss this place- it is fascinating looking at the canyon you can just see how the earth has evolved. it's beautiful and the cool air coming off the water is delightful. It is a lot of walking but you don't have to do it all to see beautiful sights - it is not difficult and there is a fence stopping you from going right to the edge.
"We took the Maligne Lake Scenic Cruise with Maligne Tours. The staff was polite, knowledgeable and funny. The tour was spectacular. Highly recommended."
We enjoyed our visit to Maligne Canyon. This is one of those trails where you can spend as much time as you have and more. The walk is moderately strenuous even though they are sort of paved. Apply sun block and then spray mosquito repellent before heading into the trail. You can skip all other stuff in Maligne if you are pressed for time but don't miss the canyon.
"Beautiful canyon and waterfalls. I originally didn't care about going but i'm glad i did. There are choices of how difficult a walk you want. you can do 20, 40 or 60 minutes, with the path getting more difficult the longer you go. I started out thinking i'd do the 20 but ended up a good part of the way into the 60 minutes. If you're in reasonable shape the 60 minute walk isn't bad. it's just uphill on the way back. very beautiful and safe (with guardrails, people,no bears!)."
"Amazing place with trails for people of all abilities.
Fantastic waterfalls.
Trails were well marked and well thought out"
"It was beautiful but not suitable for older travelers or handicapped
The mountain views were spectacular"
"Easy to get to from Jasper, best visited with a guide to get as much information as you can about the place. Beautiful scenery"
If you go to Jasper this is a must hike/walk. You can take a easier walk or hike a bit harder. The views and bridges are magnificent. Our entire family enjoyed it.
Beauty of the canyon and rushing water are Magnificat! Hiking this area can bless you with wildlife encounters!
IT is an incredible hike to do the round trip. We hiked down to Bridge 5 and back. Unfortunately Bridge 5 is closed. If you have time you can go all the way to 6. Most of the most spectacular scenery is in the upper trail. Moderate hike. Some gorgeous vistas.
Well done tourist patch across a Canyon so don't expect anything adventurous. Good views of the canyon from the different bridges and paths.
It was a lovely walk with lots of angles to see down into the deepest canyon in the rockies. Definately a must do.
Just beautiful country and I could not stop taking photos. In July that are many tourists but still had good views.
"I have expected more from this lake, as pictures showing the island within the lake, which is not visible from the area around the parking place. we have not done a trip with the boat, as this was quite expensive.Getting a coffee or some other dring at the restaurant and sitting on the terrace is nice.Worth is the trip towars the lake, as there is a high chance to see some bears and other animals. In addition the trip towards the lake is very nice."
"We had previously visited Maligne Canyon during the ski season in March and the snow and ice formations were fantastic. However, the scenery is even more impressive in June when the river level is higher and the water colour a brilliant blue. There is a fairly easy path that follows the canyon and river for several kilometres. The canyon is located within a few miles of Jasper and is a must see."
"It sure is a MUST place to visit!
Nice Walk that can be short or long. Each spot is unique.You can clearly see the time and water affect on the rocks.
Forces of nature in their glory!"
"There are some lovely walks down either side of the canyon where the river cascades down the hillside through very narrow passages. Well worth visiting and there are a range of walks of various lengths that you can choose from. There is a tea house towards the top of the canyon, where you can enjoy a drink while admiring the views, but they were out of milk when we were there."
Definitely worth the 15 minute drive. This work of nature is a marvel to behold and we were fascinated by the wearing of the rock by the forces of water. We just did the short loop but this has quite a few great vantage points. I imagine serious hikers would love this but also perfect for the time stretched or non hiking person.
"A lovely lake like all of them in the Rockies, nice walk around it complete with somewhere to eat and drink. Worth the drive"
"A short drive from Jasper, the canyon should be on your list. You can walk the path along the canyon for as long or as little as you like. There are little bridges going over the canyon and it is totally fenced in so you don't have to worry."
"If you are in the Jasper area, this is an important place to see. It is a very narrow, deep canyon with a tremendous amount of water rushing over beautiful waterfalls. It is a relatively easy hike at the edge of the canyon, with several bridges that give you great photo opportunities of the waterfalls. We hiked from Bridge 1 down to Bridge 4. It was sufficiently long, but not exhausting. We enjoyed this so much that we will plan to do it again when we come back to Jasper."
Enjoyed the canyon. Great place for picture taking. Worth the trip. Maligne Lake is also a nice stop.
"The canyon is not large,but the waterfalls are just magnificent,and it is easy to see from many different places along the walk."
This canyon is huge and well worth the visit. Not for the faint hearted. It's deep and scared but it is magnificent. The walk is down hill into the canyon so wear good shoes
"If there is a better gorge/river walk anywhere (in the world!) we have yet to find it. The views are absolutely stunning and keep changing as the walk progresses down the gorge. Worth walking all the way down to the 5th bridge - or as close to the bridge as one can get given that the route is now barred given the bridge was washed away. Then walk back along the same trail rather than the circular one through the woods as it allows one the chance to see the river and gorge in the opposite direction - always worth it as it allows for even more photo opportunities!!! On a glorious sunny day the walk is just stupendous - go early to avoid the crowds, and have the gorge to yourself for a couple of hours, well worth the effort. Nature just showing off!!!!!"
"We took this half day tour in the morning. We saw several black bears, an eaglet and its mother in their nest. We also saw an Osprey's nest but no occupants and a Mule deer sitting beside the road. The lake cruise portion was very relaxing with some of the best scenic views my wife and I had seen. The commentary on the lake cruise was excellent.Highly recommended but I have to say to everyone if you enjoy your tours, please give the guides a token of your appreciation."
We stopped here as the first part of a Brewster tour one morning. Great walking trails around and through the canyon. It was amazing to see the fossils embedded on the walking trail. Great view of the mountains around Jasper. Guest shop had a good selection of post cards.
"Stunning waterfalls and canyon - we could not stop taking photographs! There are a number of circular walks around the canyon ranging from a short, easy 20 minute walk to a harder 2 hour hike (be aware that the 2 hour hike is quite steep at the end). Well worth a visit."
"Love this hike. The views are amazing and the gift shop and restaurant are great. The walk down is great, just be aware it is a climb back to the parking lot. If you don't want to hike all the way, it still is worth the walk to the second bridge."
This canyon has to be one of the most beautiful places in the park. If you rush through just to get the hike done you'll miss half the intriguing features of the canyon. The fifth bridge has been washed out by high water this spring. Some of the maps show starting at the fifth bridge but that is no longer possible as you will not be able to get across the river. The best trailhead is at the second bridge. I recommend traveling as far as the fourth bridge then returning to the first bridge and back to the beginning. It was especially interesting to watch for underground rivers dumping into the main river below the fourth bridge these underground rivers apparently drained from Medicine Lake upstream through underground limestone tunnels. I would recommend giving yourself a minimum of two hours to fully enjoy the hike.
There are 4 bridges within an easy stroll but the fifth bridge is a lot further and remember there is only one way back - the way you came! If you have two cars and pretty fit you could leave one car at Bridge 5 or even Bridge 6 car park and walk one way but do make sure the bridges are open otherwise it is a long walk back!
"Take the Boat!!! Seriously you will not regret it. The amazing views alone are worth it, but the operators are so informative and you find out all sorts of interesting stuff, and then they come sit with you and ask you all about your holiday. Really great trip. Thanks Guys"
"Not sure which trail the other reviewer was on, but most of them can have you end up at the bottom of a steep trail going up. Seniors could walk the first part of trail and still see some of the water, but they would not be able to go the whole trail if they had any sort of knee problems or tire easily from the exertion of walking up hill. You can make it a short walk or spend a few hours.I have been here many times and never tire of this gorgeous location!"
"Nice walk into the canyon, it would be awesome in full flow. Nice restaurant & gift shop.Visited this as part of a group tour so it was good to stretch your legs! If travelling independently you would need to research which Falls to see,"
This is a great natural wonder which is hidden from view until you walk across it. The depth is considerable considering just how narrow the canyon is. The trails from the visitors centre over the canyon and into the gorge and back through the alpine meadows are a treat.
Great time of year to go in July as waterfalls very full and active due to melting snow on mountains. Relatively easy walk to see all of the waterfalls.
This is a beautiful easy gem to get to for all ages. We had teens to seniors and we all enjoyed seeing the water raging through the canyon. I was impressed that it wasn't as crowded as attractions had been in Banff.
"A trip to Jasper is not complete without a visit to Maligne. We have most recently started to enjoy the hike from the bottom bridge up but either way, depending on your ability, it is beautiful!"
spirit lake is a must. One of the most photographed spots in Canada. Take the boat trip but go early or make reservations. ust about 45 min from Jasper.
"We hiked from Jasper early in the morning to reach the canyon from Sixth bridge up over. It was wonderful to view the narrowing of the river into a small canyon. However, this is a strenuous journey requiring good non-slip and sturdy footwear as there are lots of rocks which form parts of the path. There are numerous guard rails to prevent any over zealous photographers from falling in. The path along the canyon is very steep so factor in extra time to enable the journey to the first bridge.The canyon is particularly deep in parts and the erosion on the rocks is very interesting, so smooth. There are numerous signposts throughout the area explaining the geology, flora and fauna of this microclimate. The gift shop has numerous stone carvings and lots of ladies and gents leather gloves (including the usual tourist items). The food is served in a cafeteria style way with lots of tables and chairs although I get the impression it can get busy with tour groups. Like us, I would strongly recommend getting there early."
"A beautiful lake and surroundings and the tour we took wa well worth the cost. A local young woman told us so much about the animal life, fauna and history of the place."
This lake is in an amazing setting and during our brief two weeks in Canada the one we liked the most. Plenty of walks including one to Moose lake where we did actually see a moose in the Lake.Also recommend taking the boat trip to Spirit Island. Very well worth it for the views. If you like photography this is for you.
At the Maligne parking lot there is a map. But one has to have a photographic memory to remember it.The Gentleman at the gift shop was quite rude when we asked for a map of the area. Fellow tourists specially an elderly lady were more helpful as to how to get to the 5th and 6th bridge. These can be approached by driving down a bit further in the direction of Jasper town. The Canyon itself is spectacular from where ever you see it. The walk is long but it is worth it.
"We went to the canyons early in the morning before it got too busy and only walked to bridge 1,2 & 3, which in our mind were just the right amount, took like 45 min and the views were awesome, after that we took the drive to maligne lake (40km) and managed to see some wildlife which was great, we just walked around the lake and had some light snacks there! All the food looked so good there, like it was homemade. It was a good way to kill a half day when it was rainy"
"Incredibly scenic, Malign Canyon is one of the must-see places in Jasper National Park. The upper part of the trail system involves only modest vertical hiking. As you progress down the trails toward bridges 3-6, the amount of vertical hiking required becomes greater. Disabled visitors or those in poor health should begin at the gift shop and go only as far as their confidence allows, realizing you begin by heading downhill...and the hard part is the return trip. Even the most easily accessible trips are worth the stop, but those with the stamina to do so, should continue down to at least bridge 4 as each turn of the canyon and trail reveals yet new stunning views.The Canyon cafeteria and gift shop offer a wide variety of foods and souvenirs at reasonably fair (but not cheap) prices. In addition to the less expensive items, the gift shop does sell some valuable works of carved jade by now retired artist Tony Wu. Some of his larger fine art works are priced above $500,000. Serious art collectors may find these worth a look."
"Maligne Canyon was recommended to us by one of our camping neighbors and so we went. Unfortunately it was a big disappointment. After walking through the Narrows (Zion) and visiting Escalante/ Grand Staircase, we could not get too excited about this one. You get to see it only from above, no chance to get to the bottom and the place is really crowded. There are 6 bridges to walk; our patience lasted till bridge 4."
"We enjoyed this walk though the canyon. We went as far as the 4th bridge. The trail goes up and down a lot. It is definitely worth walking to the 3rd bridge. At the 4th bridge there are some pretty cascades but if you are tired of the steps, you may want to stop at the 3rd. Some hikers coming back up the trail said it wasn't worth going past the 4th bridge so we stopped there. There is a shortcut to go back and it does cut out much of the up and down of the canyon trail. Also, we walked a little closer to the canyon, but still near to and on the same side as the shortcut trail. It was just a little prettier closer to the canyon walls."
"Yay ! on the drive out of town to visit the canyon we finally spotted some wild life !! - this was nearly as exciting as the canyon ! It is well sign posted to get to the car park , after that it is a bit hap-hazard with no directional signs very obvious . The canyon itself was quite spectacular and worth the visit ."
Jasper has many interesting places to visit. the Lakes and the Falls. Too bad there are some rude tourists
I have been here several times and each time is amazing. We brought friends from the UK this time. All of us were well impressed and awestruck by the forces of nature. I wore flip flops this time and had wished that I had my sneakers on. There are wooden walkways and stairs but we took a gravel shortcut back that would have been easier with proper footwear. Awesome free activity.
"A moderate drive but well worth it. Plus you'll see lots of wildlife (bears, elk, deer) on the way up. Canyon itself is exquisite and a beautiful reminder of the power of nature. Simply gorgeous."
"A beautiful lake, well worth taking the relatively long ride up the road to visit.
An added attraction is that there is a strong possibility to see wildlife alongside the road."
The Canyon road (about 65KM) is a must to do. Lots of wild life and the visit to the Canyon is so beautifull. The trail is nice and depending the distance you intend to do ... it would take a while. Maligne Lake if nice. But the road to it is awesome. And lots of wildlife.
"Can start walk along canyon by gift shop, we walked to bridge 5, and then followed arrows up through the woods back, wonderful views both ways"
"Make sure you are wearing comfy shoes............... and bring along a good camera.
It was well worth the trip"
Multiple trails allow you to see the canyon from different viewpoints -- the water surges through with amazing power. Crowded but there's a good reason for that! Go early.
"It's nice but not really ""into the wild"" : it's very well organized, but a little too much for me...I mean, when you have too many equipments along the trail, sure it's safer and maybe more accessible for a large number of people, but it kills a little the atmosphere for me...It looks like too much as a ""guided tour"" in a way..."
Was just another lake in the rockies... it is full of tourists and their buses with hundred of tourists... not worth.
"An invigorating hike with many scenic spots.
Along with Spirit Island and Edith Cavell glacier, it's a must see/do in Jasper."
Quiet and gorgeous views. Walking is easy and mostly flat. Early in the year but weather was good. Would recommend
Was a bit disappointed with the canyon as it was quite narrow and difficult to see into in most places. Views of the waterfalls from bridge 1 to 3 was the best part of the hike. I liked Johnston canyon north of Banff more as you could actually hike in the canyon. Best part of the visit was seeing a mother and two black bear cubs near the parking lot. Boy were they cute.
"We hiked along the deep canyon next to the river. The waterfalls were lovely. I would recommend returning to the parking lot via trail 7G, which has an initial steep section, but rewards you with beautiful views of the mountains."
"This is a must visit place when you are in Jasper, AB. We arrived before 7.30 am and there were no other cars at the car park! So we had the entire canyon to ourselves. All the hiking trail maps says that this is 2 km hike one way, that is if you want to walk the entire canyon to see all the bridges. We studied the trail map (on google maps) and walked to Bridge #2 first. It was an easy 5 mins walk! Very nice views of the deepest part of the canyon here, it was so quite in the morning and all the birds were out singing with the sounds of the rushing water.Another 5 mins brings you up to Bridge #1, this is a one way hike if I remember correctly, so we had to back track to Bridge #2. You can walk on the opposite side from Bridge #2 to Bridge 1 and beyond back to the car park, you will get a very different view of the canyon, much shallower up stream, but equally spectacular.From Bridge #2 to Bridge #3 is another 5-10 mins walk downstream. This is where the narrow bridge is and you have a great view of the rushing waters beneath you, great photo taking place if you ask me.Another 5-10 mins downstream brings you to Bridge #4, much less of the canyon to see from here. I think the best views are at Bridges #1 to #3, you can do all 3 within 30 mins if short on time. Great family hike."
Quite interesting and pretty. Easy walk to see the walls of the canyon and falls below. Worth the minimal effort.
"The scenery was magnificent! View of lake and canyon was expansive and beautiful. Saw lots of grizzlies, elk, deer, caribou."
"We started at the 5th bridge and got lost so ended up hiking a few loops and crossing all the bridges. Great views and leisurely walk that does not take too much time or effort.What I did not like about this trail was the foot traffic, there were allot of people and I normally prefer more secluded less travelled trails but I still enjoyed my time on this walk.Tip: Take a picture of the map before you begin your hike so you can have a reference if you get lost-Start early to avoid crowds"
"This was an amazing place to visit and walk round. The canyon is incredible and you can walk as little or as much as you want. You at least need to walk the length of the canyon to appreciate its magnitude . You can make this part if a day trio and carry on driving up to Maligne Lake which us fab, we saw our first bear on the road."
"Once we were on the lake it looks pristine, We saw bears along the shoreline looking for food and bald eagles and osprey were plentiful.Amazing."
"There is no clue from the road about this gorge. The depth of the gorge is very deep and it's so cold down there, you can feel the icy air rushing past. It is an amazing area to view and well worth the visit."
Weren't sure whether to visit as had seen several lakes in last few days. Advised would see bears so we went. Saw 3! Fantastic! Walked along by lake and back through forest. Saw a 3toed woodpecker. Views great
"We had taken note of previous Trip Advisor writers’ comments about arriving early at Maligne Canyon to beat the crowds so we began the walk at 8.30am to the 5th bridge (where the trail was closed for repairs) seeing only a handful of people along the way. We thoroughly enjoyed the beauty of the canyon, waterfalls and swift flowing river. We completed the walk in our normal joggers and were blessed with lovely weather but I would imagine in the wet (or after some heavy rain) that hiking shoes might be better for support and avoidance of slipping in sections.The pit toilets were OK as far as pit toilets go and the café looked nice but once we saw two coaches of tourists pull up in the car park we made a quick exit.We would highly recommend the Maligne Canyon walk to our family, friends and work colleagues visiting the Jasper area."
Had a great hike here with Jasper Walks and Talks. Guide Paula took a few of us to the canyon and Maligne Lake. Excellent way to see the area around Jasper and take a hike (minus bears) with a knowledgeable guide.
"We enjoyed the canyon that was carved out by the river, but after hiking other places we were too tired to enjoy the canyon fully. I would recommend not packing into a day with the Maligne cruise and Jasper Tramway and hike to the summit."
The canyon hike was confusing and ended up being too long because some of the trails were closed. It wasn't clear when we started what the situation was and even on the trail people were asking us if they should keep going or turn back. Take more time at Johnston Canyon instead.
"We arrived before 9:00 am when there were only a few people there. At the visitor center in Jasper they suggested we continue hiking past the 3rd bridge until the trail closed before the 5th bridge. Glad we did. The trail follows the river and the views were incredible. We saw a few fellow hikers on the trail but for the most part it was very peaceful. On the hike back the crowds had already started arriving, so not as enjoyable."
not to miss- deep canyon with pleasant walk alongside river. Take water and walking shoes. Three levels of walks easy to long/moderate.
"The weather was rainy unfortunately, but the hike was still wonderful. It was quite long, and we didn't manage to make the full circuit (we turned around just short of the last bridge), but it was definitely worth it!"
"Cant say i enjoyed this walk that much, the best part i saw was by the cafe!, from that point on in the walk the rest of the river was hard to see as it was so far down the canyon. The formations of the rock is interesting and if your interested, look out for the black swift as it's quite a hard to come by bird, it nests in the rocks.As with anywhere in this area the sceanery is beautiful from that perspective the walk is nice."
"Although I enjoyed my visit to Maligne Canyon (en route to Maligne Lake), I didn't think it quite had the WOW factor of most of the other sights I saw while in the area. Interesting and pretty though so still worth seeing.One thing I will mention is that the small gift shop by the car park is by far the best one I saw while I was in Canada. Full of lovely, good quality and non-tat things and I'm afraid I bought rather too much there."
"Maligne Canyon is a natural wonder in general, but if you really want to have a memorable experience you need to visit in the winter when the ice is frozen. Take a guided tour or head down on your own to ice level and wander up the canyon - it's awesome!"
"Disliked that it was so crowded, but to be expected on the first weekend of summer. Fairly easy hiking to see the entire canyon. We saw a black bear and her cubs along the way. It is a unique geological formation. A must see when in Jasper."
"A very beautiful location for a nice hike to see the canyon and waterfalls, or at this time of the year, ice formations. We couldn't complete the entire hike as the trail became too icy. (We did not have the correct shoes for ice hiking.) Still it was very beautiful."
"the canyon is very interesting. there are ice caves to visit in the winter. and at Maligne Lake, just down the road, if you are a cross country skier , there are excellent trails as well as back country skiing. in the summer you can rent a canoe for the lake and there are tours on the lake also. Jasper is only an hour away."
"Amazing canyon, you have a choice of walks.liked the fee parking and information on the walk. Nothing to dislike"
"Amazing rock erosion by raging water. Upper trail is fairly easy walking with steps at steep places. Can be a bit slippery. Watch for fossils in the rocks along the trail. I went with Joe from Jasper Tour Company and highly recommend him. Small group , tries to stay ahead of the big busloads, and has a lot of history, information, and stories. Next visit will be in winter to walk the frozen river in the canyon."
"Perfect for two cars, leave one at the bottom. Don't forget the keys to the car at the bottom though, or someone will be hitching a ride! So beautiful."
"The water has cut wonderful sculptures into the rocks here and the pathways and bridges offer superb view-points from which to admire, photograph or simply stand and enjoy the wonder of this place. There are, like most attractions in Canada, comprehensive informative information boards to educate visitors.The souvenir shop here is quite reasonable and has, in addition to tacky stuff, some rather tasteful art and nice quality clothing.The cafe was a little slow - I don't think that we understood the service regime - very pleasant refreshements when we finally got ourselves sorted out. Do not miss this spot... take the walk from the far end of the car park and if your short of time, forgo your cuppa! It's amazing and not to be missed!"
"Parking was a bit tough to find in mid-June, but it was worth the effort. I took the shorter loop including the Upper Canyon and the scenery was amazing. The waterfall was fantastic and made for great pictures. I did not hike far down into the Lower Canyon loop, but it looked very interesting. Just be aware that you have will have a more difficult hike to see more of the Lower Canyon. The shorter Upper Canyon hike is easy and comfortable. There was also a gift shop on site as well as a restaurant and restrooms. This is a definite ""don't-miss"" hike in Jasper National Park."
"brilliant place to visit., we took some brill pictures and there are some great walking areas . The little shop is interesting to browse in and also toilets facilities.plenty parking ."
A great opportunity to follow a fast flowing river through the canyon it has made. Spectacular sight and great photo opportunities. Easy path for less able.
"One of the attractions we were brought to bu our coach tours. Typical rock layers, deep and steep cliffs, rushing river. Saw a few fossils on the floor. Choose to stay at the gift shop and restaurant for most of the time there."
All of the scenery in the Canadian Rockies is spectacular. Each one seems better than the last. We took a narrated boat trip to Spirit Island. The water is clear and smooth.
"Not sure if this is the right place.I'm planning of being in Jasper in early August and want to hike Maligne Canyon.Between 5th and 1st bridge there appears to be several parallel trains. #7, #7f, #7h and maybe even #7g.Any idea what is the difference between them?"
"We stopped at the canyon after taking the cruise on Lake Maligne, which was amazing. Moose, black bear, bald eagle, and marmot sighting on the way to the lake."
"This is impressive. I had no idea what to expect but was blown away by it's beauty. The roar of the water can be heard on the paths and walkways. There are plenty of photo opportunities. I wish that we had more time but with a group tour the bus must move on. There is a visitor center with a gift shop, bathrooms, and food. This is definitely worth a visit"
Liked the hike and the path bridges. These are very well structured so you can see the crevices and falls very closely. Loved the natural beauty and water pathways.
Maligne canyon is only a short drive from jasper so definitely worth a look if you're in the area. The canyon is quite impressive particularly the speed and force of the water flowing through the narrow canyon. There's a cool area to stand where you can feel some of the spray off the water.
Always arrive early - to get great photos and avoid all the other tourists. the gift shop and café great. Very Beautiful
This walk through the canyon and to the falls is definitely worth it. Our National Park hosts said to be sure to do it and I am glad we listened.
"The Maligne Canyon Area is a well maintained trail from the parking lot to view the falls and beyond if you are adventurous and wish to hike to the bottom. The main falls are just a short walk from the parking lot and easy for young and old, proper foot wear could be advised so one does not skip on the rocks. Many Kodak moments, the falls are breathtaking as the water rushes over the rocks into the canyon. Wild flowers can be seen at certain times of the year. After your hike you can enjoy the restaurant and gift shop. On occasion you may see wild animals in that area.One winter we did a Canyon Crawl on the river bed which was fantastic to be able to look from the bottom UP. The Ice Formations were spectacular. The Rock formations and fossils are amazing.if you have time you can drive to Maligne Lake and you may see wild life on that drive. We have seen black bear, moose, deer, elk, mountain sheep, bald eagles and at one time saw a black wolf. There could be caribou although the species is endangered. You have to keep your eyes peeled and drive slowly to see wildlife.The scenery in that whole area is breathtaking and well worth the outing. There are quite a few hiking areas along this part of the road."
"This unexpected hike was full of twists and turns with incredible views crossing bridges. Flowers were blooming along the path. The trail is well maintained The water that rushes thru the canyon is stunning. Named by a French missionary who had trouble crossing the water with his horse, Maligne means ""evil"" or ""wicked"". I think it also means spectacular! There is a nearby cafeteria/restaurant to visit after your hike."
"We walked the entire length of the Canyon. It isn't rough, but it could wear some people out. Some stairs...we took the forest trail back up -- some steep areas. But it was beautiful and well worth it."
"There isn't anything to complain about. It was absolutely stunning. We saw Elk, Mountain Goats, and deer along the drive. It was worth the drive."
"This was our first visit to Maligne Canyon, and we were amazed by the beauty and splendor of the waterfalls! The sound of the rushing water was awesome, seeing the way the stone was eroded from years of rushing water was fascinating! The walking paths are well maintained, but good proper footwear is a must! The rock is slippery, even when dry. The gift shop contained a wide variety of souvenirs. Well worth visiting!"
It's a walk around the canyon with plenty of bridges and lookout points to look down into the depths of the canyon. And it's pretty deep! We spent longer there than we expected to but enjoyed the walk and the views into the canyon were seriously impressive.
"Not all the ice/snow was melted so water was a little low. But still beautiful. Been here in May and in August, prefer August."
"Great scenery, great place for keen photographers, one thing that should be pointed out when booking is that there is a bit of walking to do, not a problem for the young and fit, but it was a little bumpy under foot."
"Its free. The views are amazing. You can pick which level of walk you want to do and for how long. The ground is fairly uneven regardless of which walk you take so not really suitable for the very young, or unfit!"
The Maligne Canyon is pretty deep. The trail is very nice. We saw the canyon from 3 different bridge. The last bridge on the trail was broken and very far. The last bridge (5 or 6) can be accessed by a car.
Worth stopping either on your way up and coming back from the lake. Even if you are not into geology you can't but be taken aback by the way time and water have shaped the canyon. It is a nice walk with lots of really good viewing points. It really is a must do and if you don't want to do it all it can be as short a walk as you want. We loved it got there about 5.30pm and just one or two people around so we're able to take our time taking photos and enjoying the wonder of the canyon.
"The views here are great! Take warm clothes with you - it snowed during our visit in June, which we did not expect. Awesome views!"
"Great walk alongside an amazing waterfall/canyon. It was so stunning, I came back with far too many photos!"
This is a great choice for those who need a short walk to see a great outdoors site. Its also very nice to walk up from 6th bridge. You have no crowds for most of the walk each way (7km I believe round trip) and you get a really diverse view. Easy to Moderate - takes about 2.5hrs roundtrip taking your time. We loved it as a hiking choice right outside of Jasper. Might even say it should be your first choice hike if you are looking for 1/2day choices.
"Beautiful scenery along these trails & well worth the time - we spent an hour hiking the area. Not a flat trail but well-laid out with handrails & steps in steep areas. Canyon is very deep & in springtime the water is fascinating to watch. If you enjoy hiking, don't miss this canyon & don't forget your camera!"
"The canyon has some spectacular views, but it's not a particularly difficult walk. If you go by yourself, I would recommend bear spray, as there are some foresty bits away from lots of people."
"Pretty ""cool"" with diverse views if you take the time and have the energy...
We walked a total of 10K and enjoyed it... Prices in the gift shop some of most reasonable among many visited during Canadian Rockies holiday... Excellent hot cocoa, too !"
It is well worth taking time (about 30 minutes) to walk the trail along the upper portion of the canyon. Views into the chasm are spectacular.
Did hike from trailhead / gift shop / parking area down canyon around lake and then back up the canyon to the gift shop / parking area. Challenging but well laid out and worth the effort. Karst formations and rapidly flowing river / creeks make this a wonder to observe and enjoy. Will have to come back and hike when the canyon is dry and visitors can hike on the ice.
"Well worth the visit, stunning falls, we saw a nest of Ravens on the side must have been very damp for the chicks. Try to time your visit to avoid the coach parties, having fifty Japanese with clickability makes it a bit uncomfortable"
"Our guide was very informative, the walk along the trail was lovely. Gorgeous waterfalls. Make sure you take insect repellant as the mosquitoes are HUGE."
We went to the canyon on the way to the lake with an organised tour. The canyon is small. If you are expecting anything like the gorges or canyons in Australia - don't go. Still glad we saw the canyon.
"Easy start but further on steepled, but so amaziing this Canyon, because the landscape around looks so normal . You have to find out. Go further than the second bridge, far from the buses."
We came with the idea that it is going to be a short easy walk. Well - it is not. Staring from the first (or 2nd) bridge it is a you have to go down many stairs and climb back (if you don't want to walk a few km to the 6th bridge). We only went down as far as the 3rd bridge and the view was worth the effort.
Beautiful walks through the Canyon on wooden stairways and well marked trails. Some of the waterfalls were still frozen over but many were flowing.
"It took me far too long to walk the canyon. I've been coming to Jasper for so many years and I've just never gone. I was in Jasper with my family over Christmas and we went for the walk and we were so impressed. The scenery was stunning. We couldn't make it to the back of the canyon as the ice wasn't quite developed at the end, but what we saw was amazing!!! Our guide was knowledgeable and made it a great time for our whole group. The winter ice formations were awesome!!! Locals were ice climbing there too. Lots to see.Don't wait as long as I did to visit!!!"
I love the Maligne Canyon hike to the 5th Bridge. However the 5th bridge is gone as of 2013 and I'm uncertain if they are going to replace it.This is the 1st year ever that we have gone in the middle of May to find that there was no water running. Not nearly as awesome but still pretty. I've never heard it so quiet.If you have never seen it it is worth the hike!
No words can describe the beauty. It has to be seen to be understood. Teenagers were in awe of the structure nature has given us.
"This was amazing in April, great scenery with frozen waterfall and cool canyon views. It is a small canyon. We didn't walk too far as conditions were slippery."
"This canyon is very uniquely beautiful. We had a glorious time walking around, relaxing and taking photos. We went while the ice was melting so we had a beautiful combination of running water and ice/snow, though I think the canyon would be beautiful any time of year. It gets chilly around certain areas so have a jacket to pop on and off."
"If you are in Jasper, this is a can't miss sight. The canyon is only 10 minutes from downtown Jasper. There are walks of all distances ranging form .5 km to 5 km. The canyon is only 1-2 meters wide so you can walk across using the bridges.There is a tea house right at the trail head. There are waterfalls, rivers, and rapids. If you're in Jasper you must go here! Recommended to anyone who likes nature, hiking, rivers, water, and waterfalls.Tip: Wear sturdy walking shoes and were a rain coat. Not suprisingly, the trails can get steep and slipper because it's so moist. Also, there's not a small chance that it's going to rain."
We had a tour guide who explained all sorts of interesting things including showing us fossils in the rocks we walked on. Canyon is amazing.
"We have been to Jasper many time but somehow had never visited this Canyon. You need at least a couple of hours to do it justice. Lots of photo ops. It wasn't busy when we were there, and we opted to do a short fairly easy walk, there are lots of trails, some are steep. It really is worth visiting, just outside of Jasper town."
"As a Volkssport walker, this is one of my favourite and I have only done the 5km round trip so far. Start or end the walk at the tea house for a bite to eat or checking out souvenirs. get a workout on the many hills and stairs. Go to bridge 5 and back which is about 4 km. (bridge 5 is currently washed out but you can simply walk past it. I look forward to the 10 km walk which goes past bridge 6 and off on some trails. Should be in reasonable shape and have good mobility."
This is a narrow slot canyon which has well maintained paths and fences down both sides which are good for walking and photo taking.There are some nice waterfalls in parts of the canyon and in May when we visited some were still totally frozen adding another dimension to things.Definitely stop in and check this out.
We went early in the morning before the crowds. This made taking pictures much better. The walks are very good and makes for a good workout!
"No doubt this is far more beautiful when the water is flowing, and from all accounts, roaring through the canyon. Still, it is a beautiful hike in the early spring. The ice was still beautiful to see and the hike was very doable. There is some good elevation change, but for the most part it is quite gradual and should be doable for most."
"This canyon is well worth it - can be a short walk or a full day explore! Fossils, Falling water, and FUN for the whole Family!"
This was an amazing experience. Walking the Maligne canyon and seeing the caves that are under water in the summer. The price for a guided tour was totally worth it.
"Beautiful Canyon, great trails, breathtaking!! Easy walking well maintained trails. Lots of different levels, can travel up to bridge 5 and start there."
"Rocks and not tree cover makes this a very hot short hike. Overall is good interesting hike but simple not the best Canyon hikes in the Parks since you are on top of the Canyon and not in the Canyon. Still worth doing if you have an hour or two but best combined with other hikes in the area like Boom Lake, Stanely Glacier, Ink Pods etc..."
Went there with a woman who was wearing high heels. A tourist bus stopped and a bunch of people got out wearing boots with snow cleats. The guide made a big deal about the dangers of the place. We went down the hill and slid around on the ice and went back up. The woman wearing high heels did not fall down. It is a bit of a hike up the path from the bottom. I would not pay money for a guided tour and cleats.
A nice walk around the canyon but not a must do and not as scenic as the johnston canyon at the banff.
Just like everything around the Rockies it's all stunning. We went with family and It's all lovely. Would visit again & again if I could.
"It is a beautiful scenic walk but if your going to take it start from the top and only walk as far as the signs go. I think its somewhere around a 2 km walk each way. (that is a guesstimate as I have no way to measure true distance.) There are wonderful walking trails all the way down to the mouth of the river. I was told that there is a really nice starting spot down at i think its call 7th bridge (it might be 6th bridge.) It may not look like too much of a hike but by the time we reached the top its around 6+ km uphill and we were dead on our feet and then had another 6 or so km to walk back down. We could hardly move by the time we got to the car. all in all though i would do the hike again, but starting from the top."
I am not the best on my feet especially on the ice. Even so I enjoyed this tour. The hike up the hill was fine and even the descent. It was only the bottom of the canyon that was a bit slippery but the views and experience were worth it.
"For firstimers in Jasper, my husband and I were just glad to have hiked at Maligne Canyon. The trails are nice and easy although some parts are still icy and slippery. We enjoyed our walk and the view are just amazing although I could say that it may still be best to hike during summer when the falls are not frozen. Just a couple of suggestions for amateur hikers like us, study the map very carefully and have your smartphones fully charged in case you would need your GPS app to navigate your way back to where you parked your car."
"The Maligne Canyon hike was our first one during our Canadian Rockies vacation and was an excellent introduction to the majestic beauty and diversity of that region. We took the popular hike from the main parking lot and down the canyon, went past the paved and rather crowded trail and for a total 3km before we turned back. The sight of the stream is lovely, the signs along the trails adds to the educational value of the trips (even for the adults) and difficulty level is very mild, even with a 12kg baby and 3 liters of water on my back.Don't forget to take your good camera with you and don't rush yourself through the lush and peaceful scenery.As a bonus - we also had some bear sighting on Maligne road after we finished our hike and drove to see Maligne lake."
"I went on a walk down the frozen canyon with a tour guide. Definitely worth going during winter if you are not a skier/snowboarder. Take your camera with you, there are plenty of nice views on the way and down the Canyon."
Great to see such natural wonders - wasn't able to get right into the canyon due to slush puddle but tour guides made it worth the trip- Sundog Tours
Nature at it's finest! We visited during early Autumn so the water was flowing. Makes for some great photos! I'm sure it would be just as beautiful in Winter. Wear some comfy shoes if you plan to walk the length of the canyon. Also take a jumper. It can get really cool near the water.
We go to Jasper quite alot and always enjoy this hike down into the deep canyon. Just be warned it can be abit scary with little ones in tow. The trail is well marked and easy going down but not stroller friendly. We took turns carrying our baby granddaughter down in one of those hiking pack type chairs. On a hot day be sure to bring water bottles with you. Depending on your health the hike up can be challenging. There is a resturant at the top and washrooms. We like to pack our own lunch and do picnics. April is a quieter time to go to Jasper as well as September. Do you need a tour guide? It is well marked and easy to find so feel free to enjoy it on your own if you have a car to get there. Oh I should also mention the drive to Maligne Canyon has lots of interesting stops along the way. So take your time and enjoy the ride there. Almost a guarantee you will see wildlife along the way!
We went on our own and did not take a guided tour. We rented ice grips from a place in town. It was a Great experience and worth the trip to Jasper!
"I loved the sheer vastness of the canyon.The ice is beautiful and makes you gasp with shock at how nature can create such a wonderful sight.It gets very cold down in the canyon and my hands were chilly the first time I went, if you are more active in the canyon then you keep warm, if go with a tour and simply just walk and look then you can get very coldYou DO NOT need to go with a tour guide, you can just wear decent walking shoes and maybe take a ski pole for balance and the canyon is yours!There is also a very cool hill that has snow, ice and bumps that the adventurist can slide down!what fun!it is a definite must see! for families, friends, couples! it would make ace photos to show to the people who didn't see it@:)"
I recently had the pleasure of taking this night walk through the canyon. All I can say is FANTASTIC!! Our group was small and led by David. He was very knowledgeable and provided a wealth of information about the Canyon and water system. His talks were interactive and he had answers to all of our questions!We were fitted with all the gear and taught how to walk properly with the cleats so we would not slip on the ice. As this walk started out in the evening light and continued after card we were given headlamps so we could see in the dark. Very neat experience!As we are approaching the end of the freezing period David continually checked the ice so we would remain safe. We turned around when it became unsafe to continue. His pace was perfect for the group.I highly recommend you take this tour and David did an excellent job! Bravo. I'm lookingforward to doing it again in the summer.
It was great but it was too cold for me to stay there.I had a good experience in my life. I want to visit there in summer so I will be able to compare how it is.
"Yes, we have seen a few canyons and gorges. This one is special, however, so narrow and so deep in places, broader and beautiful in others. There's such a range of views. You can walk as far as you want - although when we were there the trail was closed after about 45 minutes walking. It's fairly steep in places but there are steps and railings. You don't have to walk far to enjoy the canyon, though - five minutes of strolling will give you a good taste of what the fuss is about. It's a 'must' if you are staying in Jasper."
"We went on the maligne lake canyon walk in February. We did not go with a guide, and it was very icy at spots, so bring proper footwear, but it was beautiful and a great walk. If we do it again, we will be more prepared and bring some equipment so we can walk up the canyon as well."
"A nice and easy walk but if your time is short , you better skip this one. It's nice but there are many other places in Jasper National Park that are much more beautiful."
"No need for a tour guide here! This walk was so much fun! So much to see amongst the bridges. Just make sure to have boots with good grips (winter) as we slid around a little, but so worth it! Time of our lives! And for free!"
This ice walk is super fun and can easily be done on your own without a tour guide. I've done it both ways. Last year thru a local tour company and just a few weeks ago on my own with my grown kids. We had a blast walking on the canyon's frozen river; taking in the spectacular views of huge hanging icicles and beautiful waterfall; navigating thru narrow passage ways and sliding on the ice. This place never ceases to amaze me: winter or summer. The foot paths/trails in the summer above the canyon allow you to look far far down into it. Such beauty. Don't miss it when in Jasper. Maligne Lake Road is only a few minutes east of Jasper and the canyon is not far up the road.
Had a wonderful night walk through the Maligne Canyon. Dave was a great tour guide. highly recommend.
"We rented ice walking shoes from Jasper and did the trail ourselves. If i did a tour i feel it would have been much better as they take you into areas that you cannot see just from the trail. If you are to do this, be prepared for the cold. Wear thermals, this is from experience as i didnt. The frozen waterfalls were very beautiful and the trail was a nice walk too. There are some steep areas and the walk takes roughly 45mins depending on how fast you are walking. A fantastic place to view a definite must in Jasper!"
I love Maligne Canyon in the summer. It's one of my favourite spots in Jasper. I've always wanted to do the ice walk in the winter and finally did. We walked down from the top and then saw a spot where you could get down onto the ice. We followed the tracks of everyone else and were able to enjoy the winter beauty of the canyon. The advantage of taking a tour is that they give you rubber boots with ice picks on the bottom. There are a few spots that are no longer frozen and already full of water. There are also a few uphill spots with footprints that make sort of stairs but the footprints are also full of water. Making it up with regular winter boots was okay but coming down was pretty treacherous. If you haven't grown up with ice and snow I would highly recommend the tours.
"We went on the ice walk with Sundog Tours and were absolutely amazed! As I have seen Maligne Canyon in the summer I was very eager to see it in the winter as you would never be able to walk in the canyon and enjoy the beauty that usually has roaring waters throughout it. This ice walk definitely made my trip! The views were amazing and our tour guide, Joan, was amazing. I highly recommend the ice walk tour if visiting Jasper in the winter."
"Our guide through the canyon was Grayden and he was fantastic. He knew a lot about the science of the canyon (rock formations, ice formations, plants and animals, ect). There were many great spots to take pictures with breathtaking views. Well worth $59."
"Spent last evening (February 8, 2014) doing the Ice Walk with Ryan from Sun Dog Tours. Despite the extreme cold we had a wonderful time. Ryan (our guide) was both informative- providing lots of canyon & general Jasper facts and entertaining- through in a couple of magic tricks to the delight of the kids young and old. We really appreciated the opportunity to pause a few times along the tour to just turn out our headlamps and take in the moment. The moon was bright, stars aplenty and both reflected off the ice falls surface for an enchanting time.Sun Dog Tours picked us up at our hotel and provided insulated rubber boots, cleats and headlamps as well as the nice touch of handwarmer packs. Dressed appropriately and with lots of walking we returned to the van after 1 1/2 hours outside and were hardly even cold. I would highly recommend this experience."
Worthwhile getting a professional guide to take you up there. Fabulous snowy walk with fab photographic opportunities
"The tours that are available from the Jasper Park Lodge are $59 a person, they include door to door transportation, ice cleats and a certified guide. The hotel doesn't recommend that you go alone but it is still do-able to go on your own. My friend and I decided to test our luck and go on our own, we had transportation to the canyon and no ice cleats. We are 25 years old and would say that we are at a moderate physical activity level.Personally we had so much fun doing it alone, we hopped a fence where people had obviously hopped over before us because there was a clear path to go on. We walked through the canyon on our own in just our regular winter boots. We caught up to the tour and just lingered behind but doing our own thing. We had such a great time doing our own ""self guided"" tour.Basically for $59 you get a pair of ice cleats and someone to tell you where to step and where not to step. Although the path is clearly marked out and there are obvious ""steps"" in the ice with a clear noticeable path.Save yourself the $59 and go on your own!"
"We did the ice canyon walk with Sun Dog Tours at the end of January, 2014. Our boys (9 &11) had a great time sliding down the banks before the canyon entrance. The tour company outfitted us with insulated waterproof boots, cleats and head lamps. David was a great guide. I recommend going in the evening because it is such a different experience to be hiking by lamp light and it's breathtaking to turn off the head lamps and look at the stars in this dark sky area."
We did a night time walk in the Canyon with guide David from Sun Dog Tours in mid January. It was an enchanting evening for sure. We were entertained and educated a bit by David under beautiful starlit skies with mild (-5) temperatures. The fresh air made the late dinner back in town all that much tastier.
"An invigorating hike! The Canyon is beyond beautiful. You'll find surprises on every turn. The Queen of Maligne is the most beautiful thing ever! If you are considering going, do it with a guide. We had one from Sundog Tours and she was extremely knowledgeable and fun!"
Visited the Canyon as part of a Sundog tour. Visited in August so canyon was still full of water and enjoyed a pleasant sroll on the blue trail. Thoroughly recommend taking this option to include this canyon as part of the Maligne and Spirit Island experience. Sundog guide very knowledgable (sorry terrible with remembering names).
"This was one of my favorite sights/trails in Jasper. The canyon is beautiful, the water is this amazing blue color and the trail is really nice - also very do-able for those who aren't used to lots of hiking. Just watch your step, some spots are a little slippery to to spray from the falls. Hope to go back someday!"
"A lovely walk through the woods with spectacular views! There were quite a few stairs to climb so if you can't do stairs, this is not for you!"
"Went on the Sundog tours guided Icewalk on the 5th Jan '14. Our guide was Joy, who could not have done a better job keeping everyone comfortable from the fitting of the boots, handing out hand warmers, and the pace of the walk. There was quite a range of people in our group and the walk was a little difficult for my 66 yr old mum at times but she still thoroughly enjoyed it. So almost anyone could do it, but it is not a simple stroll. There is a bit of uphill, climbing, balancing on rocks, going across logs but don't be detered it is quite simple. Joy's comentary was informative, humorous and friendly and the atmosphere she created for the group went a long way towards the 5 star rating. Without it I would have given it a 3. By the way is it common to tip a tour guide in Canada? Being an Aussie I didn't think about it until after...sorry Joy you deserved a good one!"
Great experience with knowledgable guides. Worth it in winter especially. The ice structures are very interesting and the guides sense of humour and description is added value.
Amazing place in the winter. The snow and ice makes it look like something from prehistoric times. The walk down was a bit dangerous so good walking boots are recommended.
"This hike was perfect because you can make it as long or as short as you would like to. We spent about 2 hours going downhill towards the higher number bridges. I would recommend going from the higher number bridges to the lower numbered ones if at all possible; then you can go uphill first, and downhill on the return. People go both directions, however. There are some unique rock formations along the river bed, and the color of the water is unreal! Lots of great photo opportunities."
Visited there July 2013 and enjoyed it a lot. Something we have seen never before. Something you should see if visit nearby.
"Beautiful invigorating walk that we took with a guide, Ryan, who was very personable and knowledgeable. A great way to see nature, waters frozen and so beautiful. Worked up an appetite and Ryan suggested different restaurants. All in all a great way to spend an afternoon."
A must see in Jasper!! Well worth the time and exercise! The falls are breathtaking! You cannot visit Jasper without seeing this. Nature at its finest. Totally breathtaking!
"Our knowledgeable entertaining guide Dave led us along and through the Canyon,explaining the properties and causes of Karst topography and pointing out examples of the effects of glacial action and erosion and waterfalls. Its a refreshing but not overly demanding two hour walk with cleats provided by the tour Co."
"If you keep seeing the Rockies as you travel on the road, or are already sick of the lakes.rivers that are almost everywhere, you STILL should visit this canyon attraction.It's a BEAUTIFUL example of nature's wonders!I went in winter, and all the waters were frozen, which made the canyon all the more magical.I shant say too much. See the photos attached for an idea. However, if you go in winter, BUNDLE UP! The temp goes well below -20 centigrades, or even -30. And there are NO warm reprieves along the way.Hail a cab from Jasper Town. Not far off."
We had a great time at Maligne Canyon. We were early getting into Jasper and couldn't check into our hotel yet so we drove around a bit and basically stumbled upon this place! Nice long walk - we were tired by the end (there's a long route and a short route). We went on our own without a guide and had a great time! It wasn't too busy and was an amazing start to our time in Jasper. A must see.
Spent thirty minutes getting here and felt very disappointed indeed. Medicine Lake on the other hand is a much better location and in the autumn getting down on the rocks is to be tried.
We thoroughly enjoyed the unexpected wonder of this park. Have never seen anything like it with its narrow deep canyons and waterfalls.
"Amazing scenery wonderful place to visits as snowy when we visited so even more beautiful,went with sun dog tours"
"Diverse hike with great views and features. Wasn't too busy due to time of year, might be a bit hectic in summer with the tour buses, but still definitely worth it. Would return again for another visit."
Just experiencing and seeing the raw power of what water can do to carve and mold sheer rock was something to behold!
"We walked the upper paths and the 6th bridge path during the Thanksgiving weekend. The volume of water flowing through the canyon and over the falls was quite low due to the cold weather, but the colors in the adjacent trees and bushes made up for that. The walk between the parking lot and the first and second bridges is lovely, not too strenuous, and gives good views of this natural wonder. The canyon is very deep in places; the water crystal clear, and the patterns of erosion in the rock walls quite fascinating. The 6th bridge stretch is flat but the junction of the Maligne and Athabasca rivers is also beautiful."
"A Palaeontologists' heaven. Apart from the deep canyon and the foaming river you get to see fossils from life which existed billions of years back when this place was under the ocean. For the explanations, you should have a guide to point you out the remains. We took a tour from the Sundog Tours and it was worth it."
This is one of the places in Jasper you must truly experience. Whether you go in the summer or winter it is great. I really like going in the winter when it is icy and the canyon is frozen over. The water falls are magnificent to see. I would highly recommend doing this hike. You can go down a little way or the whole way down.
Beautiful place to visit in jasper. We went because a friend recommended it to us. Great place to take photos. Was worth the walk
"A very spectacular walk. The bridge (5) was closed however so be aware if travelling soon as still in progress.
Lots of cheeky red squirrel and nice photo opportunities of the area. A lovely walk."
"After travelling the Icefields Parkway this was sort of Anticlimactic. Very crowded with huge tour buses. Not really much to see. We were part of a small tour and I feel this was a time killer until they put us on the boat for Maligne Lake,"
Was awesome... water was low at this time of year.........however it was still running and the view was stunning. Restaurant and washroom there
I was having trouble figuring out the point of Jasper. And then the smoke cleared and we set out for Maligne Canyon. Wonderful scenery! A beautiful drive with nice hikes and a lake with a boat tour. Do not miss!
"The Rockies has many deeply dissected limestone gorges with rivers, and Maligne Canyon is one of these, and many are visitor attractions. We enjoy the gorges, but some visitors may suffer over load!In terms of access, There are several footbridges over the canyon, allowing good views up and down the canyon. It is easy to miss the uppermost footbridge, as the natural path from car park takes you to bridge 2, and most people walk between 2 and 3, some go to 4, and less frequent people descend to bridge 6, although there are car parks allowing access to all 6 bridges (5 was closed for maintenance at the time of our visit).I recommend going towards the cafe at the car park, and then crossing bridge 1, and then heading down the river, as that way you see the top of the gorge, with the limestone pavement cut into by the river, and then the gorge gets deeper and deeper. Alternatively start at 2, go down to 4, and then do 1-2 on your return. The bit between 2 and 4 has an alternative path of the other side of the river, without the views of the river, but it has less steps to climb back up!The cafe and shop are not as good value as the Maligne Lake cafe, so didn't stop for long there. Although its open for longer in the season."
The canyon provides a nice hike that is not too strenuous. The views are incredible. We recommend this stop when in the park.
"This place was our most memorable hike in Canada. Really lovely, with a waterfall winding its way down through the rocky slopes, with plenty of opportunities to take photographs of the river and its beautiful surrounds. The fifth Bridge was closed at the time we were there, but the first four bridges were all lovely and there weren't too many people. In particular, between the third and fourth bridges there was an amazing waterfall that reminded me of the Zen gardens you see with water cascading down over the shale. Really amazing. Definitely set aside the time to have a trudge through here."
Wonderful hike along a beautiful canyon. Avoid the gift shop. It is full of rubber tomahawks. There is a hostel nearby if you want to stay. I think it has running water now. In 1975 there were no such amenities.
"This canyon made an interesting visit, albeit with a steep return walk. Go full circuit, if you have time. Good cafe and gift shop."
"One of the most beautiful canyons ever seen. If you are in Jasper, you need to walk this trail. The canyon has 6 bridges that cross the canyon. All with beautiful views and waterfalls... Take your time because the long walk takes about 3 - 4 hours. ( for all the bridges ) The first two bridges are very easy to walk, the others are with a bit more height gain / loss.a must see!"
Save some hiking time for this...or you can go to different viewing areas by car. Well worth the trip.
"The canyon, falls and it's wildlife are easily viewed from the car and/or short walks from the car. Excellent choice for those who want to hike a distance or are unable to hike distances. The road is 38 miles of wonder at every curve."
"Maligne Canyon, as is true for all the canyons in Jasper National Park, was beautiful and mysterious. We took some great pictures in front of the Maligne Lake Boathouse and walked around the lake. We did not have time for the Maligne Lake cruise to Spirit Island or the canoeing, and it seemed kind of expensive, but if you are on vacation, HECK, try it! I do wish there were more signs giving directions for hiking and more historical signs and pictures. Overall, we enjoyed our time here."
"Maligne Canyon is very accessible either by car or by tour. Take in the beautiful view of water carved canyon from a bridge that crosses it. There are trails that take you along the canyon. In the winter there are ""ice"" tours of the canyon where you get to walk deep down in the canyon which has been frozen by the cold winter weather. Wild life can be seen on occasion from this location - we have personally seen Big Horn Sheep, Wolves, Deer, Eagles, Mountain Bluebirds, and Bears. After your visit to the Canyon - continue to drive down Maligne Lake Road for a truly beautiful scenic experience. Places of interest along the way is Medicine Lake, Maligne Lake and if you are there in the spring/summer take the boat tour to Spirit Island at the end of Maligne Lake. You can drive this road in the winter as well depending upon road conditions however nothing is open at Maligne Lake but the mountain range is spectacular! This is also the one of the best places to see Moose in Jasper! Maligne Canyon can be seen with an hour - however if you are going to continue on to Maligne Lake - time would be a minimum of 3 to 4 hours. Be sure to follow the speed limit along Maligne Lake Road as there is usually lots of wildlife activity. If your lucky you may even see Caribou during their migration season!!"
Excellent hike thru the woods offering dozens of great views of a splendid gorge/canyon weving it's way below you. The hike is relatively easy...try coming in from the upper end if you are short on time.The interpretive panels along the way are very helpful and interesting. And the almost non-stop railings and bridges take away the fear of falling yet allow for excellent views.
This was an amazing experience. Scenery was beautiful and our tour guide was great giving us lots of local information and history of the canyon! Reasonable priced as well.
"Very pretty canyon to go explore and not to far from Jasper, easy drive and you can walk for many miles down this canyon."
"Scenery to die for, learned a lot about glaciers but the boat trip is more expensive than it need/should be"
"Maligne Canyon is a breathtaking example of erosion of limestone by water. It is set in the beautiful forest just 10 minutes drive North of Jasper. The walk crosses a total of 6 bridges across Maligne Canyon and the round trip takes about 2 1/2 hours. If you have a driver you can be picked up at sixth bridge via a track off the Maligne Lake road below the Maligne Canyon car park. There are shorter routes, many people return after the second bridge, but be aware that appropriate footwear is necessary. There is an excellent gift shop with many First Nation carvings and a large restaurant. The Canyon can be combined with a trip to Maligne lake"
You just can't imagine til you see what the power of water can do to rock. Long way down. They also have a nice gift shop.
"At this time of year there was hardly any water in the river, sometimes just a trickle. Best in June/July when there is plenty of water after the snow melted."
"It is worthwhile to take the time to explore the canyon via the hiking trail. It is spectacular with lovely colours and formations. The path is rustic in places, though, so it's advisable to have suitable footwear."
"This route from Jasper to Maligne Lake is a great drive, with the prospect of seeing bears. The canyon walks are pleasant and wooded, with fascinating rock formations and naturally occurring springs."
"This was a great slot canyon to explore and experience, nice little trail system to get the heart pumping especially on the way back up. Make sure you do all the bridges and go right down to the bottom. Cant get lost, trails well marked."
"Disappearing Medicine Lake, the Spirit Island boat trip and talking to the young rangers make this a quintessential Jasper trip."
This is a spectacular drive that will take you half a day to enjoy. The wildlife is everywhere. The Maligne Lake at the end of the canyon can take up quite a bit of time to enjoy.
"We walked as far as the fourth bridge. You get a number of brethtaking views into this breathtaking narrow canyon with a number of water falls along the way. Definitely not to be missed if you are in the Jasper area.Later in the day we visited the sixth bridge area by car. Here the river is wide and has left the canyon, so we were glad that we had refrained from making the rather long stroll from 4th to 6th bridge earlier that day."
"Very interesting to see how the water cut through the rock. The walk down is very easy, however the walk up is a work out.
Worth the 2 hour visit"
This canyon is beautiful. It is very narrow and has amazing eroded holes in the rock and formations. The walk is not wheelchair or injury friendly but well worth it. Make sure you go down to at least the third bridge as the canyon and views improve as you go. I imagine in peak season this would be very popular so go early and take your camera!
"You can stop and take a twenty minute, easy walk or you can hike for a few hours. Lots of photo opportunities and really interesting geology. I had no idea how deep and narrow it was."
"The area is breathtaking. We were there in late Sept 2013, so crowds were not an issue! Stopped at several spots during our drive to the canyon and lake. The views of the mountains and water ways were beyond anything else I have visited in the past. Be sure to wear proper footwear for the hikes and climbs. By the time we got to the lake it had gotten really cold and windy, so didn't do the boat tour. Will want to return to do that, as the area is stunning and can only imagine how glorious it would be."
We chose Brewster tours for this excursion and were not dissapointed in the least. A short walk to the canyon which is narrow but very deep. Awesome!
It is hard to believe nature. This is something that should not be missed if in the area. The rock formations and the way that the area has been supported with accessible walkways is great.
Leave the crowds at Maligne Canyon and go to Marble Canyon in Kootenay. There you can follow the entire length of an amazingly deep canyon back to its start.
"Maligne Canyon is a slot canyon near Jasper Alberta. There are a series of bridges that cross the water and provide varied views of the canyon. While there are 6 bridges, the best views are between the 1st and 4th bridge. Expect a lot of people with you but the crowds thin out the further you go down the canyon. At the parking lot are restrooms. The rock formations are very interesting and I would recommend this attraction to anyone. Strollers and wheelchairs are not recommended going down the canyon. Also watch the young children as the water is running fast and the canyon is deep at spots."
"We loved this walk. We opted to go down one side and then switch across the middle and then head back on the other side. We went down towards the fifth bridge but the crossing was out which was well sign posted, we just wanted to get further down the canyon. Very scenic, took loads of photos."
The canyon is an amazing example of how a river can shape the rock over thousands of years. The river is low at the moment and the walk back up the hill is tiring.
Visited Maligne lake & canyon in Sept 2013 - both beautiful but for mine the Canyon rates first. It's deep narrow shape can be viewed a multitude of ways - a short 20 min walk over two bridges or a longer 45 min walk over 4 bridges. There is also a multi hour hike over 6 bridges if you are really keen!Make sure you bring your camera as there are plenty of photo opportunities. There is also a tea house if you are in need of refreshments.
"Beautiful location, went there to see wildlife but sadly wildlife didn't see to want to see us! That said it is a beautiful location and worth the trip, especially in the evening you can get a great sunset."
The picture perfect view that you expect in Canada. The cruise on the lake is a worthwile experience.
Most beautiful spot in Jasper. A must to see. The Lake Cruise is recommended and well worth taking as well. Wonderful area to hike or just enjoy the lake and teahouse.
Great views. Railings and fence running along the canyon so very safe. Well marked trails. Bridge 5 is out but walked to all the bridges and then drove around for Bridge 6. Pretty views. Lots of rushing water.
A great trekking place but a little confusing map. In summer you hear a nice roaring sound of water falling.
One of many natural wonders available to see in this wonderful part of the world. Highly recommended
Everywhere you looked was just fabulous. Spirit Island is so so beautiful. It just epitomises the Maligne Lake trip.
"This is an outstanding natural wonder. But, this September, we were shocked that the water levels were so low there was virtually no ""falls"" whatsoever. In past years, even at this time, there had always been an impressive roaring series of waterfalls but not this time. I could tell that foreign tourists were a little bit surprised, likely by the contrast with the tourguide pics!"
Very neat place. Great for pics. The pot holes were incredible. Would go back to spend more time there
"There are a number of different options depending on what you want to hike. You can park at bridge # 6 or bridge #5 and hike down the canyon. But at a minimum, you want to go to the last parking lot and do the loop around bridges # 1, 2 & 3. The walk down is leisurely but the walk back is a steep hill and takes about 15 -20 minutes. No matter how out of shape you are, it's worth it."
"The boat ride was overpriced and not as enjoyable as expected. I phoned before we left NY to book a specific day/time and person promised me I would not need a reservation for that day/time and can walk right onto the boat, I phoned in advance again when in Jasper the day before and was told the same thing. So, when on a tight traveling schedule with my companions, I was a bit peeved when we showed up and had to wait over a hour from the 20 minutes early we arrived as instructed by the staff to take that specific boat. The lake and Spirit Island are beautiful but perhaps a poor value for the cost."
"This is as beautiful a lake as any we saw in the Rockies, including the Banff/Lake Louise area. There is hiking there (check for bear warnings and restrictions), but emphasis seems to be on canoeing (rowboats and canoes available at the lake- $30-35/hour or so) or otherwise boating to one of the boat-access campgrounds on the lake. If you want a boat with motor, you need to rent an electric one in town as there are only non-motorized craft available at the lake (motor rentals there were discontinued in 2011). The scenic cruise is a great way to see most of the lake, and although Spirit Island was a disappointment (a tiny spit of land that you can't walk on) the photo ops were spectacular. Fishing toward the far end of the lake was good, especially for the person we saw come in with a guide and 5 huge trout. We took a lunch and ate at one of the patio tables outside the cafe/visitor center on the lake while awaiting our cruise and it was perfect."
Nice easy walk with pretty views. a very popular tourist location. Plenty of parking and Cafe on site.
"On the road from Jasper to Lake Maligne, with lots of good views on the way. Plenty of free parking. Stunning views as you walk along the gorge edge. There are 5 crossing points, but the lower one was closed. Well worth the hard work to walk the full gorge. Lovely water cascades. Wonderful to see how the water has etched the meanders into the rock. No entrance fee."
"The canyon is amazing to see. They have different trails depending on how far you want to walk but the paths aren't clearly marked so it's easy to end up on a longer path. The path is uneven so wear good shoes. The canyon isn't to be missed, take your time and enjoy the beautiful views."
"This is a gem, not to be missed. An amazing limestone canyon with fantastic rock formations, masses of fossils and crystal clear stream that emerges from underground. We walked about 4km return to the fifth bridge but there are easier accesses for the less fit."
"Very impressive canyon, with nice vistas as well as a great trail (6 Bridges) with many views of narrow circular canyons."
"Although it has some elevation change to it, it's got paved pathways that make it accessible for most. Very cool canyon and a short but fun hike."
"this is a must, to envision the enormity of what nature can do!
there are a lot of steps so wear your walking/hiking shoes"
"Over the years this hike has been a wonderful place to take our friends, who were visiting us from other countries. Where once we scrambled over rocks, debris, fallen trees etc to a lovely path that even the elderly can manage. I've probably done this hike twenty plus time and never get tired of the ever changing scenery. There's always something new or breath taking to see. The waterfalls are splendid and have taken many pictures of them over the years. After your hike there's a lovely gift shop to visit and purchase souvenirs. Although the restaurant offers nothing special, their food is good and wholesome. This is one of the places I not only encourage people to go to, but take them there and proudly show off our beautiful scenery. Watching the smiles on peoples faces as they experience the beauty of the waterfalls is heart warming. Make this a definite destination travelers and you won't be disappointed."
"The Canyon is a stunning natural feature, that is definitely worth a visit. Parking was easy and the walk along the canyon and across the bridges was wonderful and allowed for many pictures for the album."
The power of Nature is awesome - try and get to as many levels down as possible - the waterfall changes perspective from each - some trails were closed when I visited.
I find this canyon far more impressive than Johnston Canyon in Banff NP although the first is more famous. I made it till the 6th bridge and saw an impressive array of water carvings in the rocks. The falls were equally impressive as well.
"Tends to crowd up on the bridges, but walking even 50 yards away works wonders. Impressive site for photographers, but try different angles."
Super geological features as a deep but very narrow canyon has been carved out of stone over many thousands of years. Trails run on both sides of the canyon and six bridges cross it.
"We followed the guide book and started from 6th bridge only to be turned back at 5th bridge due to a flood (it's been tough year up here), We drove down to first bridge and hiked up. NOTE, the buses love this place so get here early. Great falls, deep canyon."
"We walked to the 4th bridge and back in about one hour. It was so beautiful and interesting how the water had carved ""potholes"" in the rock and we could see the levels showing how the water had traveled in the past. It was amazing - so powerful and fantastically beautiful!!!"
The views were spectacular. The boat ride was fun and our guide was excellent. The walking trails were well thought out and could accommodate any type of walker
"The first two bridges are great but some nice waterfalls can be seen further downstream. Though bridge 5 is currently out, its worth the distance and climbing to view the entire length."
"Amazing what water can do! Follow the path down to the 4th bridge (the 5th is still closed for repairs) and revel in nature's sculpture. Well worth the hike. Look for the fossils in the rocks near the cafe, they are signposted!"
The walk was unexpected. The erosion of the limestone has made remarkable shapes. In England these geological formations are underground seen only by cavers.
"a nice hike on mostly well marked trails. it gets a bit less marked the further you go, but that is par for the course."
"The Canyon is on the way to Maligne Lake. Me and my fiance stopped in and walked down to the fourth bridge. I believe that you can walk all the way down to the sixth bridge. It is a beautiful walk and you can spend anywhere from 30 min to 2 hours walking up and down the canyon. If you go all the way down its a relatively steep climb up. On our way down we walked past quick a few people who were huffing and puffing their way back up the slope. If your doing Maligne Lake road, definitely worth the visit!"
"One of the best places in all of Jasper to go for a long (or short) hike. The views are amazing. Walk through the woods, across bridges, and look down into the huge rock carved out by rushing water. We make this stop a must on every trip to Jasper."
"Cool canyon and waterfall with a lovely walk. Not a ""real"" hike if that is what you are looking for. But a great view on a walkway along a very cool canyon."
"Very beautiful canyon, many great view. As it's accessible almost for everyone - expect a lot of visitors, but haven't seen crows as in Johnston Canyon in Banff. The park site recommends 5th bridge parking as starting point for better views, but we didn't check the site for closures and needed to find out by ourselves that the 5th bridge wasn't there anymore and we need to drive to the main parking lot."
Beautiful hike along the canyon and water falls. Not as crowded as many other shorter hikes in the park.
Enjoyed the hike along Maligne Canyon. Its a fairly easy hike and the trails are well maintained. You get a good view of the canyon as you walk the trails and the picture taking is excellent.
"Bring a camera, and some drinks as you will be exhausted from walking back up. Well worth the trouble, simply beautiful."
Good hike for all the family with different levels if you don't fancy a lot of walking. Beautiful to see and keep an eye out for bears along the road to the Canyon :)
We hiked the short trail and enjoyed the views. The restaurant was very reasonable and they made a lunch for us to take on our next adventure.
Always a calm quiet and serene spot that must be visited when you come to Jasper. Steep steps that must be walked up once one walks down. There are 5 bridges to cross from top to bottom. Plan how much time you have there and then use half that time to walk down and the other to walk up.
"It,s one thing to see the canyon at the top but if your up to it take the hike down because you really get to see the awsomeness of this. The path is very smooth and fenced so it was safe. I was so pleased to see that they don,t keep these beauty behind a ticket booth you have to pay for, It,s free."
The food was good for a captive audience cafeteria. My wife and I had soup and sandwiches as well as hot chocolate on a chilly day at Maligne Lake
"Shaded walk, with steps or dirt trails (take your pick), over a really interesting canyon. It's a short hike and easy for just about anyone (the most interesting parts are directly accessible from the parking lot) and it's fascinating to see just how deep the river has managed to carve its way through stone!"
Great hike and great waterfalls. Not too intense and a lot of the paths are paved for easier walking.
This is a beautiful area but very busy with bus tours and tourists travelling by vehicle. The parking lot is usually jammed and there are people everywhere. You need to pack your patience to find a decent parking spot. There are some great pictures for the scrapbook if you are willing to walk a ways. Make sure you have good footwear because it is not all flat.
"This trail is not too challenging, but the scenery is really quite spectacular in spots! Probably the best overall hike our family enjoyed in the Jasper area."
"We hiked the trail to the sixth bridge, took the 7 trail back, realised that we had taken a wrong turn, doubled back and eventually found our way via the 7h back to where we started ... and yet enjoyed every minute. It was a great hike for a family. The Canyon has alot to see and on the way out is downhill and that makes walking easy. The trail is pretty busy to begin with but after the first couple of km's the crowds disappear so stick with it. We were pretty disappointed by the lack of wildlife but we may just have been unlucky. That being said if I was a wild animal in the forest I would stay clear of well beaten tourist walks as well. I think it would be wrong to come to Jasper and not do this walk, it is beautiful. Would love to see it at other times in the year."
"Absolutely stunning! Like nothing I have seen before. It looks really cool! You don't even have to walk that much to see it. Definitely a must-see when you go to Jasper. However, a car is recommended if you have one, because otherwise you can either hitchhike or take a $40 shuttle there and back to town"
"We took the 45 minute boat ride and found it very enjoyable. While riding on the lake, there was a 15 minute overview of the lake & the geology of the mountains & the lake which my wife & friends found informative but not too much info.Scenery was fantastic."
If I was to be marry again this is the location I would do it cause is a beatuiful place and service persons are the best
"Cool to look at for a little while, but the novelty wears off pretty quick. Avoid the gift shop. Although, they had some decent maps for fair prices."
"We hiked to the top of Maligne Canyon from the sixth bridge parking area (Trail 7). Great scenery and, for geology buffs, a worthwhile exercise to see what you still remember. Will get crowded near the top but it moves quickly. For a little variety, take trail 7h back toward the sixth bridge parking area. You'll miss 95 % of the tourists. Round trip following these routes will be < 4 miles and only a few hundred ft of climb."
What a great first day in Jasper! This place is busy but take some time to walk beyond bridges 1 and 2 and you'll get some quiet time. The best views of the deepest parts of the canyon are bridges 1 and 2 but cover all 6 and you get to see the river before it starts cutting into the rock and all the way down to where it flattens off. Really stunning scenery and probably the one thing I would do if I only had 1 day in Jasper
"This hike was great from start to finish. Beautiful gorge right from the start. Walk down as far as you like and it is all good. On the way back up, use the hiking trail (7f) as an alternate. It is less work and gives you a different perspective. Great, great hike though. Just spectacular."
"We stopped here intending to have a quick look at the falls. We ended up hiking to the 3rd bridge (there are 5 bridges, and the hikes are of varying difficulty) and the kids, who had not been excited to stop, loved it. There are some truly spectacular views!The 4th bridge was closed while we visited."
"This review is really for Maligne Lake Road, at the beginning of which is Maligne Canyon. This road is outstanding for wildlife sightings. During our afternoon drive we saw a black bear feasting on dandelions, bighorn sheep, elk, and a grizzly bear, not to mention some pretty incredible wildflowers."
Superb scenic drive there and back with lovely walks around the lake and good facilities. Spotted plenty of wildlife - eagles and other birds and even encountered a Bighorn Sheep traffic jam on the way back!
"Maligne Canyon is set amid some of the rugged peaks of the Rockies. The canyon is a narrow gorge with limestone walls falling 50 metres to the floor below. It was very impressive. There is a short trail along the river with small rapids in the river. on the way is a small restaurant, toilets and shops with Canadian souvenirs. The walk is refreshing and lovely to be in the wilderness and close to nature. Close by is the mystical Medicine Lake and Lake Maligne. Whlile sitting on a bench and admiring the spectacular scenery a paaser-by stopped and commented that, ""this is Canada's Backdoor""! Wow, she was right, it is beautiful. The colours of the lakes are so turquoise, unbelievable that the lakes and rivers are so blue!"
"It is worth it to get here relatively early as the trail fills up quickly. Although many people who park at the main parking lot only walk to see the first few waterfalls, it is certainly worth it to take the full hike if you have over an hour. It's a relatively easy hike, but has hills, roots and narrow sections and will be affected by rain."
Maligne Canyon is not far from the town of Jasper and is easy to get to. We went there late in the afternoon and were amazed at its beauty. We walked down a couple of the bridges from the top and then came back up the other side on a trail. It is remarkable how the river has cut the canyon so deep and it's fascinating to lean over the rail and see the river rushing through the canyon. It doesn't take long to walk down the interpretative trail for several bridges to get a good view of the gorge and river. Don't miss out on this.
We decided not to drive all the way to Maligne Lake as we had limited time but we went to the canyon as part of our trip to Jasper Lodge. The canyon was deeper (and cooler) than expected. It is a bit of a hike down (and back up) but worth it.
"We didn't plan to go there absolutely because we've seen a couple of canyons already in some national parks. So happy we did, it's so beautiful and huge, very impressive with nice falls and polished rocks, unique and magnificent!Just 30-40 minutes easy walk, it's worth it I tell you! And it's just few km in car from Jasper downtown."
"An absolutely amazing hike! Even though it was long, and sometimes difficult, the sights were so amazing that our kids, ages 10, 8, and 3, did not complain."
There is nothing to dislike about this. The area is stunning but it is a hike to go around but well worth it. As all the places stay behind the fence because it is an extremely dangerous area.
"Fantastic trails, choose the length/ Longest is so worth it. Not cowded as it is well spaced. Parking a bit wild though.
Just beautiful"
"The canyon is charming, with the water of the river below swirling down. Lots of going up and down stairs, so it gets tiugh for ederly and small kids."
"I have been visiting Maligne Canyon since I was a child, and now I have the priviledge of taking my own kids there each year. You begin at the top of the canyon and it's all downhill from there. The canyon goes for several kilometers with sections marked by bridges. From the top to the second bridge the trail is not to taxing, but after that it gets quite steep. After the fourth bridge, the trail flattens out and is again very easy, so the only truly hard part is from the second to the fourth bridge, but if you take your time coming back up the trip is truly rewarding. The views are spectacular and the only sound is the rush of the water cascading over the waterfalls cut into the canyon. It is a highlight on our yearly trip to Jasper and I picture my kids taking their kids someday."
we spent a half hour or so around this wonderful park area as part of a morning tour . Could have spent longer but well worth a visit if your visiting the area.
"This is a scenic and easy place to hike and see the canyon and its waterfalls. It is quite popular so you won't be hiking alone. No special gear is required, as it is more of a walk than a hike. There is an attractive and convenient restaurant next to the parking lot, plus a large souvenir shop with some quality soapstone carvings."
"After you have blown your mind at Maligne Lake, perhaps taken the boat trip to Spirit Island (albeit expensive), or walked the Mary Schaffer loop and spotted a black bear or an Elk or a ground Squirrel then the return journey to Jasper will be enriched by a stop at the canyon. See the raw power of Canadian rivers that have gouged out rock over the millenia. As with all activities in the Canadian national Parks the place is safe and caters for all."
"This trip, Maligne Canyon has scored a special place in my heart. Not only was the hike a beautiful and relaxed one, it was where my partner proposed to me. To note, this is a fairly crowded attraction. We walked the crowded path first all the way to the 6th bridge and on our way back, we took an alternative route that took us up some steep slopes, away from the water streams. This route was really quiet as most would prefer not to climb steep slopes. And that was where my love popped the question."
I suggest starting at bridge #6 which will allow to do the hike for about 3km until you reach the tea house with the hundred of other tourists. It will allow you to see all the different aspects of the canyon.
Beautiful hiking tour with the constant sound of flowing water ... Beautiful scenery ... fresh mountain air ... Felt safe and peaceful
"We were driving to Maligne Lake so on the way visited the canyon which was quite a sight and very interesting. A deep limestone canyon that has been carved out by the power of the gushing water , it is very impressive. In winter you can walk along the bottom as it is frozen, even the falls freeze which would be impressive to see. It is like a huge cave system which experts believe years ago the glacier carved the top off exposing what we see now. Well worth the visit especially if you are headed to Maligne Lake about an hour out of Jasper."
crowded but great views and interesting info boards. Stop at the canyon but continue on to Medicine Lake and Maligne Lake.
We took a tour with a group on a 20 passenger vehicle. Marie was a great guide - very funny and knowledgable. We had a run-in with a big horned sheep - real up close. Marie kept her cool - got the bus door closed - we were all outside - and managed to shoo the herd of about 10 away. Those horns are awesome to see up close but you don't want to be too close.
Just before sun down there always seem to be wildlife along the road for easy viewing. The Lake view at the end is spectacular.
"Beautiful deep canyon, rushing falls after snow melt. Very interesting geological history along the deep canyon walls. Just did first two bridges, there's more to see, but even the first two were quite amazing"
"We stopped in on our way back from the lake cruise. Very pretty little Canyon and waterfall. Doesnt take long to walk around the track, we actually started at bridge 4 and went back to bridge 1. Recomend start at 1 and it just gets better ( I think there are 6 all up but 5 was closed). Only took us about 10 or 15 min but well worth it."
"We made the stop here and actually a brief stop prior at the look out on a summer morning.Maligne Canyon exceeded our expectations, because we were only thinking of this stop a short one on our way down to the lake. When we got there, everyone was talking about the black bear sighting which just had occurred around the parking area! We believe that it was the same bear we just saw at the look out area that we were just at!! Anyway, with the excitement and all, we ended up taking more time walking around,and also at the gift shop. This shop has some interesting stuff, if you are looking for something unique."
Compared to Johnston and some of the waterfalls one sees on the Icefield Parkway this was a bit of a disappointment. It's narrow and hard to appreciate. It's worth a quick stop on the way back from Maligne Lake but wouldn't allot a lot of time
"Maligne Lake is an easy trip from Jasper. It offers brilliant scenery, a lake trip and a visit to Spirit Island with superb views of the Rocky Mountains. The Canyon is striking because of the rush of water which seems to 'appear' from nowhere. Neither trip offers a back to nature experience of the area but for those who like an easy experience it great."
"its beautiful, really a stunning place and well worth a visit. incredibly busy in summer though parking was at a premium!"
"An incredible natural wonder - close to other activities like Jasper Tramway, horseback riding, hiking, etc."
"Beautiful surroundings, thought involves a little bit of a trek. There is a well laid out trekking path along the side of the canyon."
"It's one of the most visited spots in Jasper. Full of tourists on peak season. Plenty of parking, restaurant and toilets. There is a short hike and the longer trail. There are some areas that are a bit difficult, steps, slippery rocks and if its sunny and hot there are areas where there is a lack of shade. For the long trail it is advisable to bring water and good hiking shoes. The canyon itself is magnificent. You can try to refresh your feet in some of the lesser strong current spots."
"Maligne Canyon was an unexpected wonder only 10 km from Jasper townsite. Start at the upper canyon (1st bridge) and follow the trail. Higher in the mountains, Maligne River enters Medicine Lake, with no apparent outlet. Instead, water drains through underground karst caves, resurfacing in the canyon 30 km away. The deep, narrow canyon walls are beautifully carved, ledges covered with lush mosses kept moist by the spray of plunging waterfalls. As the canyon opens a bit, the water surges over drops and sends up rooster tail sprays. Still lower, additional streams flow out of caves in the canyon walls. Paved paths wind downriver and across bridges that cross the canyon. Walk to 4th bridge or as far as you are comfortable, and return by the river or shortcut back up to the parking lot by the horse trail that runs slightly above the river trail. Note: the 5th bridge is out."
"worth a stop. Always see wildlife in the parking lot! Shop so-so. Canyon simply amazing and well mapped. If you have two cars, do the hike down from the top to the fourth bridge. Its a great hike and all downhill!"
"We stopped at Maligne Canyon mostly because it was closer to Jasper than Maligne Lake, but we were pleasantly surprised. We just walked the shortest loop and it was perfect... a new and interesting view at every turn! If you want a longer hike, just look at one of the signs and choose the length you want."
"I loved the flow of water coming out of the canyon. The hike was nice and got a little challenging at parts of it. I did not like that the signs were not real clear after walking a mile or so which way to go. That is one thing that needs to be updated. If it wasn`t for a biker coming through, we may have walked a few miles further and landed up in another parking lot."
"This was one of the most amazing wonders of Jasper Park. The waters from Medicine lake travel in underground rivers that reemerge in this river canyon, an amazing trail along deeply carved canyon. The hike down is worth the climb back up to look down into the gorges and see the rivers appearing out of the walls of the canyon!"
"Fifth bridge was closed and we wanted a longer hike than the short loop at the top of the canyon, We certainly got our wish! The trail hugged the shoreline until the canyon began, then climbed partway and then eventually. There are numerous steps near the end, so it is not too accessible for those with difficulties in mobility. The canyon is quite narrow and twisty, with hidden caves and surprise waterfalls. The teahouse at the top has an excellent collection of Inuit art for sale and good food."
This canyon is a great adventure for all ages. The hike out was a little strenuous as it was all uphill but I'm 60 and out of shape and made it just fine. but the stroll downhill over the many bridges was extremely enjoyable. This a great activity for a rainy or cloudy day. It is FREE. Parking can be tight if you arrive after ten on summer days. And tour groups can be a pain but just get there early and you might have the place relatively to yourself. As usual Parks Canada had done a great job making the canyon accessible and safe. Beautifully engineered and constructed bridges and path ways. Just remember the more bridges you cross the more you will have to walk uphill on the way out.
"An easy and picturesque walk with dozens of photo opportunities (actually, hundreds!). Well worth the visit. Came across a local who had just kayaked through the canyon - that would have been amazing to see! Given the force of the water, it's not something I would recommend though!"
Taking a kayak out on the lake is an absolute must. So perfect. We could've stayed out forever. We rented a double kayak and the views are spectacular. Make sure you pack a lunch so that you don't have to come back. You can rent the kayaks overnight and also go camping on site. Wish we had known in advance that we could do that! Nights get chilly so pack properly. This was well worth the visit.
This can be taken as a fairly easy walk starting from the car park at the top of the canyon or as a moderate hike up from sixth bridge. It is a trail full of excellent interpretive signs which explain some of the interesting geological features relating to the flow of water from Medicine Lake into the canyon.
"Every view is different and better. We started from the highest point, and walked along the canyoun, following the bridges down, until the 6th bridge. Mostly in the shade,good as it was rather hot that day. Easy walking for some hour and a half."
"It's amazing to see what water strength and time can achieve. Absolutely worth stopping there, and going down the stairs. It's not very taxing."
"This canyon road is long and scenic. We saw a herd of bighorn sheep and a huge bull elk just along the road driving. Others saw a bear. The boat trip at the lake should not be missed, fantastic glacier scenery. Also visit the Canyon and waterfalls at the beginning of the road."
Visited this as an afterthought after visiting Maligne Lake and very glad we did. It was so beautiful and very interesting. We were very happy to see the Black Swifts which had nested on the cliff side. We were so glad we decided to take the turn off and visit the canyon.One helpful hint would be some signs giving an idea of how far you have walked and how far to the next bridge helping you to decide when to turn back.
This was the most beautiful site seeing part of our trip to Jasper. This canyon is breathtaking. Make sure to hike all around the area as views are different at different locations
"the deep crevice and the raging waters are quite impressive, there is a beautiful walk along the creek"
"Try to cross all 6 bridges. If you can't, one and two are not to be missed. During the heat of the day hiking in the morning is best. Trail is OK for seniors."
"The Maligne Canyon is a short drive from Jasper and well worth the effort to both get there and take the walk along the canyon. You will see great waterfalls and rushing water along the trail, which is fairly easy to walk, with some short middling steep spots along the way. The trail is groomed and paved in parts, which may not appeal to heavy hiking enthusiasts."
"This canyon is so deep that most of the time you can only hear the water, not see it. Easy walk, we went up to 4th bridge as the 5th is still closed. You can go back to the car park via a different route."
"This was a beautiful setting. Went early to beat the crowds. Glad we did because on the way back, the people streaming onto the trail was unbelievable. Weren't bothered by any mosquitoes, got some great pics and the hike wasn't bad at all."
"Only 5 minutes to the turnoff from Jasper. It is the deepest gorge and there is a bridge at the top where you can see quite a lot. I sat on a bench while my daughters walked down. It says 20 mins down (only if you are fit) probably nearer 40 mins one way. You can see the gorge all the way. Getting back there are other trails less rugged and easier, as a higher route. Took them about l.5 hours round trip with photos and they still didn't see all of it.Mosquitos as ever!"
"Beautiful canyon, absolutely worth a stop. There are hikes and walks available of different length. The most beautiful and deepest part is in the beginning so no need to go too far if short on time."
Wonderful place to spend a few relaxing hours. Great photo opportunities and comfortable walking paths
Different length hikes down to the numbered bridges over the Canyon to see the water gushing through. It is worth remembering that you have to walk back uphill. Plenty of parking. Café didn't look very attractive so I didn't go in. You need insect repellent.
"The walk through the canyon is relatively easy and has great view of the river and the canyon. The signs explaining about the surrounding makes it even more interesting. We only got to the fifth bridge since the way was closed after it, so we went back through 7h trail. The trail is nice and although the climb is steeper it seems shorter way back."
Planned to see the falls/canyon and was guided by other reviews. We walked up from the bottom (6th bridge) which is sign posted near beginning of Malign Road. Bridge 5 was closed after a positive bear siting that morning. We stopped to look at everything and took lots of photos and did the round walk in three hours. Much easier to have the downhill portion on the return walk. Moderate level of fitness required with a rise of about 50 metres overall. It was fascinating to see the change from a rapid moving river through to the narrow power of the falls. Made much more sense to me this way. Drive on to Lake Malign even if just for the fantastic food at the tea house. Had huge afternoon tea for two (not the high tea) with coffee for $15.00. Happiness filled.
Took a day trip and had a great trip. The driver was informed and told us a lot about what we were seeing and the history of the area. The boat trip was also well worth the money and the guide gave us a lot of interesting information
We really enjoyed walking the canyon...it is absolutely beautiful and worth seeing...this was our second time going and we would go again!
"The canyon is truly a wonderful experience - it's so interesting to see how the water has carved its way through the rock. We visited in the summer, but would also love to visit it in winter and try some ice climbing."
"Lovely walk down into the canyon - you can choose to go as far as you want and make it a very short, medium or long hike. We did the medium one and found it extremely beautiful. The falls are powerful and the canyon is very pretty."
It is incredible what water and gravel [and thousands of years] can do to the hardest of rocks ---it has to be seen to be believed.
"Maligne Canyon is a must-see in Jasper. Most people drive to the parking at the top of the canyon and then decend to 2nd or 3rd bridge. Although thiis offers a great view of the canyon and the water streaming through it, a much better option is to start a hike at 6th bridge, work your way up and then slowly seeing the canyon get deeper and the water wilder. It is a bit of an effort to make the climb, but well worth it. The interpretative panels along the route are very informative, and explain the origin of the canyon (both theories), the impact on vegetation, as well as the underground river all the way from Medicine Lake."
"We walked through the canyon and along the river - a relatively easy walk that took about 1.5-2 hours. Really, enjoyable way to spend early morning (we arrived at about 8 am). The falls are spectacular, with several excellent viewing points along the walk - the river was a beautiful green colour and was flowing very quickly. Well worth taking the time to visit."
Interesting rock formations. Quite a challenge if you want to see it from bridge 1 to 6... You'll be out of breath due to the altitude if your not used to it. Fantastic views though.
"We did the long version of this hike, from 6th Bridge. There was a somewhat confusing sign at the trail head about the closure of 5th Bridge, but no worries -- the trail is open all the way through from 6th Bridge. This hike is fairly easy, and the scenery in the main part of the canyon had us snapping lots of photos. We did need bug spray on this trail."
Well worth the stop. Be sure to walk down to at least the second (of 6 bridges) to view the incredible water and falls.
The awesome forces of nature put mere human endeavour in perspective - but the restaurant was still welcome afterwards.
We've hiked to Maligne Canyon and we've biked to Maligne Canyon. We've also done some whitewater rafting in the Maligne Canyon and some Ice climbing. Awesome area. The Tea House and gift shop are a great way to take a break!
"Possibly the most picturesque of all the Icefield Parkway falls.
Shows the power of the water, in a site where most of the views are very easily accessible to anyone without a long walk from the top two bridges."
the falls are amazing. We were there in summer but apparently they freeze over in winter and you can hike through them.
"Was only able to make it to 3 of the 3 bridges on the trail since my aunt, who was in our group, has bad knees. Beautiful canyon, sounds of the rushing water were soothing, views from the viewpoints and bridges were really neat since you can see the force of the water...nicely maintained trail, easy hike! Only the mosquitoes were a nuisance, tho' there weren't too many, so really can't complain! Definitely worth a trip if you are in Jasper!"
"although there are certainly steps involved in doing this little jaunt, it is very worthwhile and quite impressive to see the canyon. we found the signs/map confusing, but were able to get it figured out"
Fab walk even in the rain! Fantastic to see nature at its best!! Its quite a walk so make sure you come prepared!
"The canyon is en route when visiting Maligne lake, so it's worth dropping in to visit, however it's not the most spectacular canyon you'll see. It is nice and an easy walk, if you do the shortest loop"
On our way to the lake we were sooo lucky to see a caribou feeding next to the road and 2 bears. One of the bears had 3 cubs and she walked across the road right behind our car. It was amazing to see then so close
"It started to rain so we didn't get far but from what we saw from the 1st bridge, it is a great place for a hike!"
There is a trail that follows the canyons under a series of bridges - this gives you a couple unique viewpoints. We did not get a chance to stop at the teahouse as it was about to close. We went after 8pm and was very quiet.
"There's 6 bridges to take in at this canyon, each one giving a different view of how the rocks have been changed by water erosion. The walks to each bridge vary in length and difficulty. We did bridges 1-5 and back in 2 hours 20 minutes, taking our time and lots of photographs. The further you walk, the less people you encounter which made the experience even better for us because we could linger and take in the atmosphere. The power of the water is spectacular and there is a stunning waterfall quite close to bridge 5. Actually bridge 5 is a bit of a misnomer at present, because the bridge isn't there - it has to be replaced. All it means is that you can't cross from one side of the river to the other.A brilliant afternoon hike, especially in good weather, with the promise of an ice cream or something more substantial at The Tea Rooms on your return to the car park."
"The sites were so different the the other hikes, rides, etc. we experienced in Jasper. The river & canyon had so many twists & turns, yet kept looking more incredible with each step. Path isn't marked well, thank goodness we met nice people while hiking & they gave us a ride back to our car, after they got a ride back to theirs, for we all ended up in the wrong parking lot."
This was our first visit to the Canyon and it certainly won't be our last! The shaping of the canyon over many years by the relentless thundering water was certainly a sight to be seen and one that ought not to be missed!
"a nice walk in the woods following the river to some great views of falls and rapids and the canyon far too many people though , why do people have to wear perfume to go to the woods?"
This is a must if travelling to Jasper. We went on July 6 and the water was high but even more the canyon was unbelievable. It is not for the elderly as it is a very long and steep climb but worth every step.
"we were there on a rainy overcast day on a way to hike the Opal mountains and were struck by the sharp edges on the mountains. the water was so beautiful ...an emerald color with an underground aquifier.there are a multitude of trails you can hike but you will see and be with mule deer, elk and possibly bears so keep it in mind if that is something you don't wantwe loved it"
"We didn't complete all of the walk owing to my difficulty with my knees but despite the challenge of the steps and the return climb, it was well worth the effort, even for the two canyons that we saw on the walk."
"One of the many must-go-to places in the Jasper area! This is a place we go to each time we are there, the scenery is spectacular. If the weather is rainy or wet (not uncommon) be careful on the trails and rocks as they can be quite slippery! Enjoy it is truly beautiful!"
Beautiful gorge formed by river on the way to Maligne Lake. You can take a quick view or longer hike
"The walkway along the canyon offers stunning views of the gushing waters. You can walk along Bridges 1, 2 & 3...and Then drive up to Bridge 5 to cover levels 4, 5 & 6...to avoid a long walk either way."
"The canyon is a beautiful natural wonder. For those who don't wish a long hike, you can park at the teahouse and walk along the canyon from there; (still plenty of stairs). We parked at the 6th bridge & hiked a 3-4 hour loop. Make sure to take the 7h trail back since the 5th bridge is closed! Bring bug spray & plenty of water too."
"Stunning views down rocky gorges, a mountain stream, nice trails, bridges...also saw a black bear. Quite crowded but the farther you go the trails thin out. A must do...even if you only want to walk a 100 yards, the first views are worth it...or walking a couple of kilometers."
"Words do not sufficiently describe Maligne Canyon gouged out of rock over the milleniums, Like others, we took photographs, but the length, form and sound of the canyon do not permit capture upon film. It just has to be seen."
"The trail was well marked and well maintained. There were information stations through the hike which were very helpful. My recommendation would be to start at the bottom and walk up and then down. Unfortunately, we did it the other way."
"Very unique, interesting scenery. Deep cavern with waterfall and running river. Trail runs along it for a long time with bridges crossing it. We went to bridge 4 and it was a decent hike (maybe 45 minutes or so). Great views at every turn as you continue on. Keep in mind at the beginning it is all down hill and you eventually have to get back up, it could be tough if you are not ready for it (keep it in mind when deciding how far out to go). If you are in reasonable shape it is no big deal though. The scenery is not vast like many of the other view points you will visit here, but it is very unique and beautiful, definitely worth a trip. We did it on the way back from Maligne Lake. There were rangers there with a bear skin/head (we had just seen a bear on the road while driving here), good little learning experience for the kids."
"This was a great stop on the way to Maligne Lake by small tour bus. We had the benefit of a knowledgable driver and guide taking us along a woodland trail from parking lot to the Canyon. With his descriptions of the signs of wild anilmal activity, of some of the wild flowers (and finding some orchids), and of the geology of the area this all added to to the experience of the Canyon itself. Great views from various levels and bridges of the waterfalls thundering down through the narrow clefts in the limestone rock. Our guide pointed out a step which, he claims, was where Marilyn Monroe had slipped and injured her ankle when on location in 1953 for the filming of ""River of No Return"". She had spent some time afterwards on crutches as can be seen from photos taken after the accident. A lovely walk. ."
This was a wonderful hike through the canyon. Just the right amount of shade and coolness from the water on a hot day.
Quite a bit walking is to be done to see this Canyon but I think it is worth it. It is a paradise for nature lovers.
"Nature at its best, running water, wild life, picnic area, easy hiking, just amazing. Downside: not a loop, you have to go back the same way you walked"
"It should be called hidden water canyon. The walls are so close together and winding that you can only hear the rushing water. There are paved paths and steps on one side and a gravel path on the other side of the gorge. Both paths are steep and the paved side has lots of steps so if you have problems walking just visit the bridges you can drive to, you'll get a idea of what the whole gorge looks like. Wear bug spray. There are bears in the area so keep everyone together, we saw a small brown bear by the road."
"The canyon is wonderful with great views down into the gorge, wonderful walks through the forest teeming with wildlife, flowers and beautiful trees. Great for walking off the excess breakfast pounds!!"
"Stunning canyon, lovely walk. Recommend driving up the road to Maligne canyon later in the afternoon. Saw lots of wildlife."
"This was a great canyon, but due to a lack of information, we found ourselves following a path for a very long way, assuming that we would eventually be back to the parking lot where we started. There was a sign that notified us that the fifth bridge was closed, but we thought that meant that there was a bridge we wouldn't be able to use to enjoy one of the views of the canyon. We didn't realize that it meant that we wouldn't have any path for getting back to the parking lot if we continued on. There was no other information. It seemed that we had gone on for a very long time when we met some people coming the other way. They told us they had come from the sixth bridge parking lot and there was no way back to our parking lot without going back the way we came or proceeding to the sixth bridge parking lot and hiking back 3-4 miles on the highway to get to our car. Luckily, there were some other people on the trail who had family members that met them at the sixth bridge parking lot in a car. They offered to give us a ride. If they hadn't done that, we would have been forced to walk a lot longer than we intended that day. There should be more information given out to help prevent confusion."
Well worth a visit only a short walk to see the falls and the canyon longer walks if you feel like it. Restaurant rest rooms and gift shop also available.
"We stopped by Maligne Canyon on our way back from Maligne Lake and we are so glad we did. This is such an interesting place. You can get a true appreciation of exactly how a canyon forms and you can follow it all the way from its origins to the main river. It is well worth walking the whole track, although bridge 5 was closed when we were there. That's not a problem because you can take a loop track back to the carpark so you are not retracing your steps. The walk is varied, interesting and very scenic. Not what we expected at all."
"The waterfall at bridge one is definitely the best part about the canyon. But I recommend walking at least down to bridge four and if you're up for it, a little farther to bridge five (which was actually closed while we were there, so no crossing that one). (I gave the canyon three stars, but I'm basing that on comparing it to the other stuff in the area. It's average for the area, but definitely an awesome place to go.) Bring bug spray!! The mosquitos are everywhere!"
A great walk down the falls. Easy access and good parking. Bridge 5 was washed away during winter of 2012/13 but the walk is more than challenging and enjoyable enough - the power of the water is awesome.
"Easy route to follow. You could go as far as you wanted and then return. Several falls of water to see, easily photograph from several bridges crossing the canyon."
"Along with amazing mountain and lake views, we saw many critters. There were 9 black bears, including one in a tree beside the road munching on poplar leaves, and a sow with 3 tiny cubs. A long legged bull moose was in the woods, difficult to see but very close to our vehicle. The largest bull elk we have seen yet (4 front facing antlers, in full velvet) grazing beside the road. A tourist got out of her car for a photo and scared him into the forest. She was fortunate he ran away instead of at her, as they do sometimes. We did not see any woodland caribou. Other tourists said they did, but probably do not know the difference between a caribou and an elk. There were lots and lots of elk. We carried bear spray whenever we left the vehicle for our safety. I'd return for another hike there in a heartbeat."
This was an interesting and worth while stop. Great photo opportunities and we enjoyed it very much.
I loved looking at the gorge the river had created in the limestone. One can read about this but it comes so much to life when one sees it in reality. It's ok a walk going down but difficult on way back for an older person! Still worth it!
The drive to the canyon was great. I like the variety of hike options ranging from easy to most challenging.
"A great activity if you have been sitting a lot -- especially for a cloudy/rainy day, which we had a lot of."
"Hiking through waterfalls, pine forests and beautiful vistas! You can go on the more level trail or hike up onto a plateau with views of the valley."
We stopped off at Maligne Canyon on a damp and grey morning on our drive to Maligne Lake. It is a narrow but spectacular setting with a well signposted walking trip of various lengths around the area. We chose the shorter one which took us along and round the river as it rushes through a very narrow canyon. On a better day it would be a very nice place to walk through but the weather didn't encourage us to linger
"The Canyon hike provides all kinds of viewpoints, especially if you go all the way from bridge 1 to 6 and also take the upper trail in one direction. At the upper end the river roars through the canyon and further down it mellows into a scenic stroll. Make sure your camera batteries are charged.Make sure you start at bridge 1 near the main building. If you start from bridge 2, at the other end of the parking lot, you will miss some of the best falls."
"We had visited Maligne Lake previously but never the canyon, how lovely it was, wish we could have stayed longer."
Mother Nature at her most wicked.its better when the sub shines. Nice coffee shop at the end of the hike
"A moderate difficulty trail along the canyon. Pay attention to the map for short and long possibilities. The place itself is unique, with excellent opportunities for photos."
I always take the canyon tour every time I come to Jasper. I never get tired of it. It's a relatively short hike down to the 4th bridge and back this time it was spoiled by a simple bee sting. I prefer visiting during the shoulder seasons when it isn't as crowded.
"Visited the canyon and then drove further up the road towards Maligne.. The scenery is breathtaking and we saw several bears including one with her two cubs, a caribou and from a distance an Eagle. A trip not to be missed"
"Have been here before...not too busy this time. Great views and good exercise walking to the different bridges. good entertainment watching the ""fools"" get close to the canyon walls away from the safety area....it's a long way to the bottom with a quick stop! :)"
"Very impressive - The falls and the canyon are great!. They only have to reduce the slope of the trail (Unfortunately they cannot).
Don't miss it."
The deep but narrow canyon carved by the watein Jasper.r fllow makes an impressive and beautiful sight. Almost no effort to see it and suitable for just about everybody. Just go if you are
"On the way to Maligne Lake, you will see signs pointing to Maligne Canyon on the left side. Make sure you stop here, because you wouldn't want to miss the photo ops. This short walk will amaze you.Hint - if you can't walk far, get dropped off buy the cafe and gift shop and start at the end of the trail. You can get a pretty good view by walking about 25 meters."
"Great hike if you are fine with the downhill/uphill climbs going down to the canyon. The 5th bridge was closed when we visited, but the rest of the hike was beautiful."
"Well laid out paths and information boards and the photo opportunities are endless,the water was so impressive with the way it had formed the canyons"
Very miserable day but meant a lot of water coming through the canyon. Have been to others but none are as dramatic and have such steep sides. Well worth a visit in any weather. Oh and we saw a raven's nest with at least five babies in the rock.
"It was a very rainy day and the views weren't great, but we were rewarded with a great sighting (and photo) of a bald eagle."
"This was a great stop on our trip to Jasper - simply beautiful views and amazing to see the power of water, we took a ton of photos. We opted for the short path which was well worth the trip - we took our time looking at the falls, water, canyons and taking in the beauty of it all. This is an easy walk, and its paved. We stopped into the gift shop / tea house to use the restrooms before heading to our car. The gift shop is packed with stuff - still amazing at all of the ""art"" in the store and hall way. The Jade sculptures and art was amazing and hard to believe pieces in the $100K range just sitting there - one piece was even selling for $1 million - not everyday you see that. We bought a couple of books for $5 each. Anyways - the ""nature"" walk is worth anyone's time."
Maligne Canyon was somewhere we just stumbled upon when out for a drive in Jasper.The walk is quite a hilly hike but completely worth it. The views are stunning and there are many little information boards dotted about the walk telling you many things about the canyon.I would highly recommend it if your ever in Jasper.
Recently upgraded trails really improve this area. Highly recommended for a short hike to see some very unique scenery
"I just wrote a review about the jasper tramway and my experience going there on a rainy cloudy day and I couldn't see a view. That is what led me to Maligne canyon. The tour guide In the tramway suggested this place to us. It's awesome! Very natural and interesting! It's worth the hike. Even if I felt sorry for my tramway experience due to the weather, Maligne Canyon can be visited anytime even when it's raining! It's still beautiful and perfect anytime, any day. :)"
"I had no idea this type of place existed. When we decided to go see a canyon, I was expecting something wider, simpler. The way the water has carved out the rock is stunning. The short route is really very short and you don't get to see much. We went on the medium-length hike and the waterfall was spectacular. However, the hike back was a bit of a challenge for our sea-level lungs, as it was a steady climb up to the parking lot. The paths are in good condition and the routes are well-marked."
"We did a two hour hike through the canyon. Not difficult at all, even for seniors like us. Lovely scenery all the way. Saw three rare black swifts in their nest in a canyon hole. This is a must-visit site near Jasper. Souvenirs are reasonably priced in its gift-shop."
"We had read that you could independently explore the Ice Canyon but given we had never walked on a frozen river and were worried about the safety aspects we chose to go on a guided tour and did not regret it for a second.Our guide was fantastic - reassuringly experienced, very informative and gave us plenty of time to take photos & ask questions. As part of our tour we had boots & cleats supplied which were brilliantly warm and gave us MUCH more confidence on the slick ice.We crawled behind an ice waterfall, ""slid"" down an ice slide and got to see the canyon from above AND below.Thoroughly recommend as a ""soft"" adventure option - there is a bit of walking involved (you walk down to the canyon and then back up at the end) but nothing the average person couldn't cope with."
"I had the best guide possible - ""Wes"". He was extremely experienced and very interesting. He knows the Canyon like the back of his hand. Definately worth a visit"
Well maintained. Great walk. Rangers out to explain things to you about the fossils. Great pictures to be had.
I loved that you could walk pretty much the entire length of the canyon. The views were stunning. I found that there was one point when knowing which trail to take to go in another direction could be confusing so improving the signage would work.
"We did a guided ice canyon walk. This was the highlight of our trip to Canada. This unique tour takes you through the canyon along a frozen river. Tour guide was excellent. Informative not over powering. Usually I am not into group tours, this was the exception. Make sure you go in the cave behind the frozen waterfall."
I've been doing the Maligne Canyon hike since i was a kid and it still never gets old. This year my boyfriend and I hiked it during the winter when everything was frozen and it was absolutely beautiful. We've hiked it before in the winter but each year the water and icicles freeze in different shapes and forms creating a whole new experiance each time!
"Maligne Canyon is on your way to Maligne Lake. There are 6 bridges, bridge 1 and 2 is easy walk, bridge 3 is medium walk, you go down the hill all the way there and on the way back it is all the way up. Bridge 4-6 are much further, if you have time and energy, then you can do it. Love the waterfalls."
Great views and awesome ride there in a sidecar of a Harley Davidson. Evidence of bears and lots of wildlife around.
"The signage on the trails was very poor and we ended up reaching the wrong parking lot. Luckily, there was a nice man who ended up giving one of us a ride to ""our"" parking lot so we could get the car and pick up the others."
An easy walk down the canyon crossing over bridges over waterfalls. Well worth stopping for. You cross seven bridges. Bridges 5 - 7 were closed when we were ther but the first 4 were great.
"A short drive to get here and well worth it. Not having a lot of time, we only did two of the 6 bridges but were still happy we made the decision to drive out here."
"You can walk for miles doing this route. It crosses 6 bridges, we managed to get to 5 but we wanted to visit the lake so had to return to the car. The waterfalls were fantastic. There were people of all ages doing this route including couples carrying buggies over the less manageable pushchair terrain."
"Having only 4 days to spend going from Banff to Jasper makes for a VERY busy 4 days. So many great things to see (even aside from the view in general); the Columbia Ice fields, the Gondola rides, the waterfalls and lots more. Jasper's Maligne Canyon, however, is AMAZING. We've visited similar sites before, but none as spectacular as this. The walk down the canyon, as the water cuts deeper and deeper into the rock, is breathtaking. Whatever else you do in Jasper, DO NOT MISS THIS!"
this was well worth the trip to see it all covered in snow. Lots of animals on the way to photograph.
The Canyon is gorgeous in the summer and in the winter. We did the Maligne Canyon Icewalk this February and it was just amazing! A must see for sure!
"This was awesome place to visit, and to take short or long hikes depending on your interest. Not far off the highway."
We walked the canyon on the way to the lake. Spectacular! If you do trail 7 (the long walk) to the bottom. You can come back a quicker way on 7t if you are pushed for time.
Nature at its best! Stunning water filled canyon with rapids and gushing waterfalls. Good cafe and gift shop
"Superb with a great guide who was really knew her stuff!
The canyon is really stunning with plenty of ice and frost."
"Beautiful
One gift shop closed
gift shop very pricey, same items in town much lower
Not suitable for people with mobility issues"
"The scenery (mountains, lake and forest) is very nice there and you may see wildlife on the way if you are lucky ..."
What a nice place to visit. Nice well marked hiking trails around the canyon. Definitely a must see attraction.
Absolutely beautiful and well worth the hike. Enjoy hulking the canyon every time we come out here a must see.
"The drive in will keep your heart pumping. Amazing, untouched wilderness with many photo ops. Saw caribou, elk, grizzly bear, lynx (bob cat?). The only down side were the folks in a rush that HAVE to drive 20kph faster than posted speed limits and couldn't be bothered to use trash cans."
Stopped into Maligne Canyon while taking a scenic drive. They have excellent parking facilities and great trails and bridges for hiking back and forth across the canyan. We didn't have much time to explore but would definitely check it out again when we had more time as we would like to complete the whole trail. Kids couldn't believe how deep the canyon was when you are standing on one of the bridges looking down.
Only a 15 minute drive from the centre of Jasper offering fantastic views. There are various walks you can take depending on your stamina & you can then finish up at the tearoom! We saw 3 deer just by the tearoom.
Can be short or longer. We spent a couple of hours here walking the full trail and playing around in the dry riverbed. Also saw a nest of ravens that momma raven came to feed which was really neat.
"I Thought It Was Very Pretty, But I Was Not Prepared For The Hike Down The Canyon. It Was VERY Slick & Icy & I Was Wearing Tennis Shoes With No Grip On The Bottom. The Sign Said It Was A 20-40 Minute Trip, But It Turned Into A 3 Hour Hike (The Reason I Gave A 4 Instead Of A 5). I Would Love To See It Again In Better Weather."
We went as a family to Jasper as a weekend getaway. The sights are amazing. I love that this park is free (you have to pay to drive into Jasper - but no specific cost for this). It could take you hours (with children) to walk this. Canada beauty at its best !
We enjoyed the Maligne Canyon experience. Very pretty and worth the time and effort. If you have the time this is a great stop.
If you're in Jasper in the winter you have to do an icewalk with a guide. It's so amazing! Better with a guide than alone because they can take you to all the great spots and know the safest way of getting around. You're also equipped with the right footware.
"We started at the 5th bridge and worked our way up. Because of our lack of ice cleats we didn't even make it to the fourth bridge, but we had a lot of fun slipping and sliding down the path. Thank goodness for those railings and my teenage son who helped guide my daughter and me over the most Icy sections! The scenery was fantastic and it was a good way to stretch our muscles after two days skiing. We saw quite a few tour groups and decided that next year we'll pay the extra money to join a group. They looked like they got to venture into some pretty amazing spots on the canyon floor!"
"We took our 6 and 8 year old on a walk thru the canyon. We loved the quietness and listening to the ice starting to melt. We walked in the canyon and it was just a wonderful experience. A Lifetime Bucket List Experience that we wont forget. The sun was shining, it was slippery, but just a wonderful way to see the wonder of what happen in the summer when the water carves into rock when the water flows. It was like the frozen ice captured the waterfall and allowed us to touch the ice and see through the ice on the rocks. Beautiful, and a learning experience."
"We visited this canyon on a rainy morning. À lot of people to walk the Path along this attraction. Possible to do only the best part of this area and to return the Same way.  Time 60to90 minutes. Other visits : medecine lake and maligne lake, all together a half day of splendid nature!"
"Maligne canyon offers amazing views of Pyramid mountain and the surrounding ranges. Even more amazing is the drive down Malign lake road, which takes you along the base of a seriously intense, jagged mountain range. In my opinion, these are some of the best mountain views that Jasper has to offer."
"Nice walk and sightseeing!
Very worthwhile!
The sundog tour guide that took us there was very nice, envolving and knowledgeable, and excited to tell me and my son from Brazil about the surroundings."
"We went on a day that was absolutely beautiful. It was a great hike, still a little slippery, I suggest proper footware! I didn't have that and I wish I did haha. It was fairly busy with other people hiking but it wasn't too bad. Took about 3 hours total time to get all the way to the end of the canyon, but we also didn't take the trail, we walked the river. Made it take a bit longer probably because it was much more slippery(and I stopped for pictures a lot) but we took the trail on the way back and it was quick. Definately liked the more rugged way down though, and it was nice to beable toget right down into the canyon. Beautiful spot!!"
"Loved the Canyon. A well layed out nature walk. Its completly amazing what water can do. I had taken many pictures while on the trail, and recommend this as a must see when in Jasper"
Just a short 10 min drive away from Jasper is an absolutely beautiful nature walk of varying length depending on how much exercise you want to get. Just make sure you have the right footwear in the wintertime as the steps can get snow/ice covered and rather treacherous.
"Absolutely breathtaking.
You can walk in the Canyon in the Winter or hike the way down in the summer. It's amazing to see what millions of years of water flow does to rock. It will blow you away."
"Maligne Canyon is a must do when you're in Jasper! Start at 5th bridge and hike your way up, or start at the top and walk down. Wherever you start, expect a workout! It's beautiful though."
The winter walk on the ice is incredible. The beauty of the ice and the power of nature combined. Highly recommended.
"This is a very lengthy walk if you go from the bottom to the top (or vice versa). You actually walk through a canyon and cross it several times. If you like this sort of thing, then it is great to see the canyon that the water has carved out of it. Maligne River still runs through the bottom of it, quite quickly in fact.In winter this is frozen and there are guided tours. We've not done that yet, but its on my list.Also, at various points on the walk, you can stop and look for fossils in the rocks - something we learned from the junior explorers handbook from the Parks Canada office."
We did the night time maligne canyon ice walk through jasper adventure centre. Our guide (Wes) was knowledgable and courteous to the slower members of the group by stopping often. The canyon itself was beautiful and inspirational. The ice cleats and thermal rubber boots provided made walking easy and slush areas not an issue. Worth the money!
"Was recommended this as a must do whilst in jasper, and this is definitely true. Albeit a short tour (2 hours) I am so glad we did it. Outstandingly beautiful ice falls and waterfalls, our guide, Alicia, was excellent; hugely knowledgable, fun and accommodating with our photography requests. The equipment they provide is great and definitely needed. Requires moderate fitness for the swift walk up to the start of the canyon, but not difficult at all. Would love to do this again."
"Picked up early at JPL, for the short but beautiful drive up to the canyon. Our guide strapped ice cleats over our waterproof boots (supplied if you don't have any) and we were on our way. He stopped suddenly, motioned for us to stay put and followed a set of pawprints up the path....upon is reurn telling us that it was an adult cougar, and that they were fresh! We continued on, listening intently to the information supplied, and then descended into the frozen river below....amazing. Absolutely breathtaking, and an experience I am glad we all did, including our 6 and 8 year old children. Never did see that cougar (thankfully) but sure did see some magical natural splendour."
We went with Sundog Tours. The frozen water was beautiful and definitely not to be missed. Our guide Alisha made it a pleasant and fun trek.
"Waterfalls, narrow river gorges, huge lakes surrounded by mountains, wildlife everywhere, scenic hiking trails all over - what more can you ask for?"
Beatiful and unbelivable art of nature. Can' t belive until you see for yourself the force at which the glacier water gushes in canyon resulting in carving the canyon.
"My husband and I checked out Maligne Canyon on our own this past Friday (January 18th, 2013) Temperatures were above average so the ice was starting to melt; we weren't able to explore as much as I'd like. I suggest buying a good pair of water proof winter boots. Check out the link of how to do your own tour."
"We went on the night tour, our group was 8 people guided by two staff members. In hindsight I would prefer the day tour to see the canyon better, but the night tour meant less people and a chance to explore the cave! Bundle up, it was a warmer night and I was quite cold. Beautiful ice formations, i wouldn't recommend it to anybody with restricted mobility or younger children. Almost everybody in our group fell at one point so be prepared. Great tour, I'd love to see the canyon during the summer."
"This natural attraction is so beautiful and has to be seen in person-pictures just dont do it justice. Ryan was our guide and he was excellent, funny, knowledgable and friendly. I was lucky, the day I went was perfect, right around zero with no wind. It was quite wet in spots due to the melt but the boots keep you dry. It was a bit tricky in a couple of spots, but overall a fairly easy hike. For the price, it was well worth it and I would recommend it 100%. The tour company (Sundog Tours) pick you up at your hotel, supple the boots and spikes, and get you there and back comfortably and safely."
"Most people take this walk during the daytime but at night, the entire landscape changes and the only light and shadows are created by your headlamps. This was also great for photography. On a clear night you can get shots of the stars and also do some light painting in front of the ice falls."
"We had little idea what to expect beforehand- the descriptions that we had read hardly did this site justice. The remarkable rock formations and, when we went, the frozen waterfalls just have to be seen. There is a refreshing lack of 'elf & safety restrictions- it really is a walk on the wild side, but be warned, you need to be reasonably fit!"
"We went on the ice walk with Sun Dog Tours. Alicia was our guide and she was excellent. She had a very good knowldge of the area, river and canyon and was extrenely safety conscious which was great! The walk itself is about 4-5 kms and for moderate fitness. They provide boots and cleats but make sure you have the right gear to be warm. Buy two lots of toe warmers for each foot (top and bottom) and hand warmers - these can be bought at the hotel or most places for about $3 each and last the day. Alicia gave my wife some and we were very appreciative. Also you want layers and jackets and if you have them ski type pants. A great informative tour with an excellent guide. Lasted about 3 hours. Very worthwhile way to spend an avo. Great!"
"Amazing to see this gorge in both seasons. We have hiked from the top down in summer and along the bottom in winter. Too claustrophobic to cave, I found Maligne Canyon in winter a safe cave-like experience. Beautiful and surreal. Highly recommended. Yes, April is still winter here...it can be spring, but it wasn't yet the year we walked along the bottom. (2010)"
what wonderful scenery the frozen lake went for miles the snow was so thick so beautiful one of the truly memorable place we visited
We went on the ice walk with our two kids aged 9 & 12 and we all really enjoyed the experience. Our guide was friendly & informative. The canyon is spectacular in the winter. There are many beautiful sights!
We only paid a brief visit in winter snow so it is probably not fair to pass judgement but what we saw wasn't particularly spectacular
"What more can you say, the scenery all round is awe inspiring, to the photographers out there you cannot wish for better where ever you go"
"Make sure you have good winter boots with grips, and add ice clamps if you want to climb. An excellent place to explore a winter wonderland, FREE !"
"Just that, you can do it without paying the tour, Good to see it otherwise. The place is cool and an unique view of a waterfall"
We booked a tour through the Jasper Adventure Center. All the staff was knowledgable and very patient (we had a couple younger kids who asked ALOT of questions). The ice walk is definitely something to experience in the winter!
Did a 3 hour tour with Sundog Tours and Ryan was our guide. We were given walking shoes and ice spikes to cover our boots which you definitely need. The scenery is manificent but it was very cold. Some of our group went behind a frozen waterfall but they got very wet. If you intend to do this you need good wet weather gear. We didn't see any animals on our tour. Ryan was very informative and was a great guide. We were collected from our hotel at 2 pm and dropped back just on 5 pm. We were so cold we went straight into the lounge area and had a hot chocolate! I would definitely do this again but with better and warmer clothing. Definitely recommend to others.
I did half day tour with Jasper Tours in winter which was great. Amazing frozen waterfalls amidst beautiful scenery. My only criticism is that I would've liked more information provided by our guide.
"It was a good hike and our guide was very knowledgeable,. The scenery was breathtaking. We saw some wildlife. It's good to go first thing in the morning as we crashed when we got back to our hotel."
"Went with The Jasper Tour Company.....excellent! Joe is knowledgable, friendly, has a sense of humour and a passion for Jasper that is contagious Did the ice canyon tour with my two teenagers 14 & 16...something they will never forget!!!! Joe is very family friendly and makes you feel comfortable from the moment you meet him."
"Some parts were closed but we enjoyed the snowy walk through
the canyon. Neat to see the frozen water fall and winter wonderland view!"
"The canyon starts out small but gets incredibly deep as you go further down the mountain there are a few great waterfalls along the way. I had the pleasure of seeing this in winter when the waterfalls were frozen and in summer when they were flowing and roaring. There are many caves along the bottom of the river where people go caving in the winter when it's all frozen, and in summer there are masses of water pouring out of them.It really is a beautiful place any time of the year, there are guided walks you can pay for, but it is easy enough to do it yourself for free as their are railings all along the walkways. If you go in winter, you will want to take or rent ot some ice shoes.. or at least wear something with plenty of grip."
A couple hour hike through the canyon is a must during the winter. The views are spectacular and the frozen waterfalls are most impressive. We joined a tour group that picked us up at our hotel and supplied us with boots and ice cleats. It was a bit challenging in spots but well worth the effort.
its a interesting canyon with river flowing through it with full force.tou can view it from various view points
"This was a lovely drive, however, we went close to sunset hoping to see animals as others had suggested. It was a nice drive but we didnt see anything unusal..no wildlife..."
"Spectacular falls, wildlife, etc and a good long walk if you are up to it although you can do a shortened version"
"This canyon surprised me, All the views are really nice and we could enjoy seeing the broken rocks and the power of the water. Also the color of the water, that tipical blue from the rockies..."
"We had the luxury of two cars. We parked one at the top and one at the bottom. We hiked down to the lower car since we only had 1.5 hours and we were tired from 3 days of outdoor physical activity. Perfect combination of sweet spots, vistas, and feeling like you are in the mountains."
This canyon walk (about 8 miles NE of the town of Jasper) is beautiful and not terribly difficult. Wear good shoes as it can be slippery in places. The first section is easy and most people turn back after the third bridge. The footing becomes a little trickier but I would recommend that you keep going if you can. The elevation increases and the scenery is well worth it. I'd guess it's about a 3 mile walk and takes maybe 2 and a half hours. We were there in mid-September and it was pretty crowded so I bet it's mobbed in the summer months. It could be a pretty treacherous walk if the temps are below freezing.
"The depth of this small canyon was much more impressive than expected. We went down along the horse trail which is better suited for the more adventurous as it has no barriers or railings. But at this time of year, even the paved paths were dangerous as they were very icy. Walking poles recommended when its been snowing."
Well worth the drive. We encountered wildlife and beautiful scdnery. Walking along the Canyon Trail was beautiful.
"We visited late evening in September, very few people around and it was lovely, super views. On the drive back to Jasper we stopped to watch a seriously hormonal male elk and his girls! Rutting season in full swing!"
Great views and you can do an easy hike. Do this on your way back from the boat trip on Maligne Lake so you can catch one of the early boats.
As the summer season was over this was tranquil and beautiful. Even in high season I would recommend a visit
"the drive up from Jasper was wonderful, great views around every corner. Once up to Maligne Lake one could take the expensive ferry tour, or just relax on the deck overlooking the lake."
Pretty good but wish it was not so gated. I know it's for our protection but it felt like you were a bit separated from it all. We got pretty close to some deer in the parking lot which was cool.
"My husband and I did this hike while visiting Jasper in July. We wanted to do the whole 7 bridges hike, but the first two were washed out by excessive rain, so we started at the thrid bridge and hiked up the canyon to the seventh bridge and the tearoom.The path is very well taken care of, in fact, in many areas it is paved and has stairs to help with the small inclines. There are lots of picturesque viewing points all along the hike where you can take in numerous waterfalls, rapids, canyon walls and wildlife.It took us about an hour to get up to the tea room, and that was going at a leisurely pace with lots of stops for pictures. There was a lot of people on the trail, so if you want less traffic, you should head there early. It was slippery in many sections so wear good footwear. If you want a shorter journey, you can actually drive to the tearoom and park there, and do just a quick (1-15 minute) walk along the upper bridges where the most dramatic waterfalls are.Instead of walking back along the bottom of the canyon again, we took the trail that runs along the top of the canyon. It was less busy and offered some lovely views of the surrounding mountains."
We parked at the top and walked down the falls. We would have made it further up the falls if we had started at the bottom.
"The Maligne canyon is short drive out of Jasper, with very good oppurtunies to see Elk on the way. The Canyon has ample parking, Toilets and good interpretive signs.If you go all the way to the bottom it is a good 45 minute walk, on the way back you can take alternative trails which cut out some of the climbing.The scenery and the canyon are awe inspiring."
"Maligne Canyon was shaped by the river flowing through it. The waterfall at the beginning of the canyon is quite impressive, and the surrounding landscape gives a lot of photo-opportunities You can do a self-guided walk across 5 of the 6 bridges (bridge number five is closed) over the canyonIt's a beautiful walk along the canyon edges, only make sure to follow the correct detour at bridge 5 or it will take a while before you find the parking lot again.(as we certainly experienced)"
"Awesome hike along a great canyon just a short drive from town. Incredible scenery, not too busy this time of year."
Trip on boat slightly disappointing due to non English speaking fellow passengers talking but the views are wonderful and the peace awesome
Spectacular - no other word to describe. Easy trails for not so adventurous and many more difficult ones for those hikers wanting to do more.
Largely paved and great for young kids. Allow an hour to be able to explore adequately. Spectacular deep and narrow canyons with lots of view spots.
"Breathtaking, it was such a surprise to see how lovely it was. Enjoyed the walk and surrounds. The drive up is lovely on a sunny morning, with a stop at the lookout along the way. Well worth it too!"
We walked on the trail to see the Canyon which is beautiful. We looked for the fossil's and the bear claw marks on a tree which someone told us about. They have a great gift shop at the end of the trail.
"Even if you are not a serious walker, taking time to visit the Canyon is a must. Park up at the visitor centre and walk down to Bridge 2 - from here you will be at the highest point above the canyon floor (51m). Spectacular scenes. The walk down to Bridge 3 is worthwhile but if you return to the centre on the opposite side, take your time. The inclines are deceptively challenging!!"
"obviously we hadnt noticed it was the no 1 attraction what a find !!
great walk and superb views of the canyo"
"It is nice to walk along the canyon and it's bridges. You can walk up to 2 hours if you make it till the 6th bridge (which we didn't). It takes you just about 45min to see the first 4 bridges. It is still not discovered how this canyon came to be though they have a good theory about it. There is a nice homepage if you google it and no entrance fee is required. It must be a highlight really to do an icewalk in there, which is offered in winter!"
"We hiked from 6th bridge up past 5th, then back again. Then drove up to 1st bridge & the main parking area. The hiking was very nice with some good spots to go down to the river & good photo ops. It's fairly flat with a few hills but not difficult. We passed people with strollers etc. The downside is that there is no loop, you just turn around and go back the way you came.At the main lot there are nice views of the narrow canyon, the wonder of nature & the power of water, time & errosion. More good photo ops."
The pathway follows the falls closely and it is possible to walk back a different way on the other side of the canyon.
The gorge was fascinating with its deep chasm cut into the stone walls. Then reading about how Medicine lake drains through an underground river system. Finally you arrive at Maligne Lake and its beautiful vistas. It was cold and raining so we passed on the boat cruise.
"As we were passing by we decided to take a look... Well, long drive, beautiful scenery on the way but... the lake was covered with snow (lots) and the facilities were close (of course), bad timing for us. So, please wait until winter is totally gone."
Make sure you take your camera. Almost around every corner there is a view that you will want to photograph for your memories
"great lake, good boat trip (whilst a little pricey) but interesting staff, trip to Spirit Island, good cafe area. nice walks"
"This is a deep crevice that you look down at the river from above in the summer time. If you go in winter, there are guided tours (at a very reasonable rate) that will take you walking along the frozen river. Along the way are some of the biggest frozen waterfalls we have seen. A truly special place to see."
Hit the trail after breakfast and walked along the canyon and it's waterfalls and rushing waters! Fantastic views and misty cool off points. Unbelievable to see the amount of water that comes through the area. Busy...touristy but did not seem crowded once you got further down the trail!
Gorgeous breathtaking ice canyon. The tour guides are incredibly friendly. Makes for great photos! They provide you with footwear attachments. The ice will vary depending on how cold the winter gets.
The walk down the canyon was great. Beautiful scenery and you can go at whatever pace you want. There are little trails you can take on the side or stay on the main track. Beware though the hike down is great but we were puffing a bit on the way back up.
Make sure you get out to Maligne Canyon and take a walk around the loop path to see the fantastic rock formations and the thunderous fall of water into the canyon
"Breathtaking, with a range of walks from gentle to strenuous. Cafe close by Car Park. My favourite setting along the Icefields Parkway"
"Parks Canada has done a great job providing access to and all around this incredible sight. It combines breathtaking scenery, wildlife and vegetation interest, even to the amateur, particularly if you are guided by Paula Beauchamp at Jasper Walks and Talks."
We did not travel the whole canyon - only part way down. It is a bit strenuous - definitely not for someone who can't do a little bit of hiking at a slow pace. It is beautiful as are many of the areas around Jasper.
"We lucked out, the summer of 2012 followed a rainy spring so the water rushed through Maligne Canyon, giving the visitor a wonder to behold."
I have been to the canyon in the summer and in the fall and it was great both times. If you have children or are not used to a bit of a hike maybe bring water and a snack as the hike down to bridge 4 and back can end up being long otherwise.
The canyon is gorgeous however the number of people visiting spoiled it for me. If you want to spend 10-30minutes somewhere this is great but personally I prefer somewhere a little more off the beaten track.
A good bunch of trails with water all around you. Some of the trails can get a little skinny so be carefull with kids on rainy days. Not to be missed.
"Interesting talk by the guide, would have loved to have been able to spend more time browsing around. Do get the guide, they point out stuff such as bear marks in the trees, woodpeckers holes etc that the average person would just walk past."
"I would rate this a must see if you are in the Jasper area. It's a 30 or so mile drive from the town of Jasper. And to get the most out of the visit, take the boat cruise to Spirit Island at the other end of the lake. That's where the truly magnificent views are. Our guide on the cruise was delightful and very informative. There's a decent restaurant there also. You can rent boats at the boat dock. This was the highlight of our Jasper visit."
Alec and Cat were the boat guides and were fantastic for the ride up the Maligne Lake to the box canyon of amazing and towering mountain peaks. This boat trip is a must even at $67 per person.
"A place to stop and explore on the drive, it's well worth the time and see how beautiful the canyon is"
Beautiful but tends to get crowded until you have hiked a bit and left most of the people behind. On the return leg we took a higher trail and the sights of the mountains are fantastic!
"Bridge 5 was closed, so we began at Bridge 6, and we hiked to Bridge 1. I recommend beginning at 6, hiking to 1, and returning to 6. Bridges 1 and 2 have the most crowds as tour buses begin at Bridge 1, and Bridges 1 & 2 are very close together (a 20 minute out and back hike from Bridge 1). The hike from 6 to 1 took about 2-2.5 hours due to all the pictures we took of the scenery; the return trip took about 1 hour. There is a ""tea house"" past the Bridge 1 parking lot; it looks more like a restaurant with patio seating (we did not eat there as we packed our own lunch). Even though we hiked in the 3rd week of September, there was as much water flowing as we would see in the spring in the Colorado Rockies! This hike is not to be missed!!! It is an easy hike for an adult; if you bring young children, you have to be very watchful of them, even though most river access are fenced (except from bridges 6 to 4 ish."
"A truly beautiful place, well worth a visit in the Fall, I can only imagine how interesting it would be in Winter too."
"If I had to recommend one half day trip more than any other in a visit to the Canadian Rockies, I reckon it would be the couple of hour hike (return) from Bridge 6 to Bridge 1 in the Maligne Canyon."
The lake is beautiful and the boat trip well worth the effort. We saw moose close up in the lake and the scenery is stunning
"This is a neat place to visit and good for all ages. The pathway down to the canyon is well constructed and even someone with walking difficulties could likely manage. The trail goes quite far down the canyon so you can choose how long you would like to walk for. The first bridge is not too far from the parking lot and has quite a stunning view of the canyon. From there, if you choose to venture on, there are some steep sections with hand rails and some stairs. Beautiful place to visit. Free."
The sheer force of nature constantly amazes me. Maligne canyon was no exception. Definitely a must see on your trip to or from Jasper.
"If you only have time for one walk in the Jasper area, make it this one. The gorge is incredibly beautiful."
Fantastic views every turn you take. Lots of photo opportunities and fantastic scenery everywhere you look. Stunning walks to take.
Easy to access and only takes a little detour on the way to Maligne Lake to enjoy. I took a short video to capture the sounds as well as the sights.
This is just a short walk of the road and well worth a stop. The whole drive to Maligne Lake was enjoyable.
"Its just so pretty, its amazing to see what nature can really do after long periods of time. so nice and relaxing. A great hike to you never notice how far you have gone till you have to walk back and its all up hill :p"
"I greatly enjoyed the experience of walking along the gorge and viewing the deep cut and rushing water! Quite an amazing sight!However, there were way too many people for me and that made the visit a lot shorter. I suppose I should expect that in the middle of August though."
"Good views, nature, bush with a variety of trails to suit all travellers, to top it off it is enjoying nature without an entrance fee. Suggest comfortable shoes that don't skid."
The depth of the canyon will surprise you and the rushing water will mesmerize you. Watch for rainbows in the canyon.
"We did this hike while we were spending a day driving up to Maligne Lake. The fifth bridge was closed, so we turned around at that point. There are beautiful views all along the way and it isn't a difficult hike."
The trail leads down hill through a narrow canyon filled with cascades and waterfalls. It was an unexpected treat. We had no idea it was so interesting and beautiful
Bridge 5 was closed so we did 1-a little past bridge 4. Fairly easy hike but it is downhill which of coarse what goes down has to come back up.
This is a well laid out visit with both short and long trails. The detailed descriptions are very good. A stunning canyon with many photo opportunities.
"Did this hike on my birthday, it was amazing!!! We kind of did it backwards, I would recommend it!! Probably took 100 photos that day, but they are all on my facebook and I don't know how to add them here, you will just have to go and see for yourself!!"
Canyon is a real treat but if you decide to walk to the 6th bridge and back it is quite a tiring walk back as it is uphill. The views are outstanding and reminded me of the Little Yellowstone canyon.
"One of the only things to see in Jasper, but not exceptionalI find that the Jasper National Park (and Banff National Park) is not very interesting by itself. If you are there, you can plan a visit the Maligne Canyon. It is not exceptional, and it is clear that you don't come here especially for that.The Bank National Park and the Jasper National Park are no match compared to the king of the park, the Yellowstone."
We hiked for about 2 hours and saw amazing scenery. Worth the trip. Well laid out paths. Slight caution: there are a lot of stairs to climb coming back up from the canyon bottom.
"An absolutely gorgeous place! The power of the water rushing through this narrow canyon is awe-inspiring; this was our favorite hike of many in Banff and Jasper National Parks. Along the way you will spot many smaller waterfalls joining the major ones. The trail is well maintained with gradual change of elevation and guard rails. Be sure to continue on Maligne Lake Road to see the beautiful Medicine Lake (at least it was beautiful in September; we were told that the water ""disappears"" through underground canyons before re-emerging at the canyon) and Maligne Lake. The Maligne Lake boat tour was a favorite of ours, too."
The walk to the bottom of the canyon was fantastic. The views are absolutely wonderful. There were three trails to follow all of vary lengths.
"If you like waterfalls, then you'll need to put the Maligne Canyon on your bucket list. As I understand it, the Maligne Canyon features limestone, which water eats through faster than the rock formation. This, along with a series of underground rivers with the mountain, have caused the mountain to be carved into, much like we see in the Grand Canyon. The result is a ""canyon"" that has been etched through, and lots of water flowing down and around various hard rock walls and surfaces. It is simply mesmerizing to watch the water bounce off various obstacles that it has not yet blasted through. Of interest is also a very exciting place where water jets out from an underground cave/river, joining up with other water from upstream.A vivid reminder of the power of nature at work."
"Best of the best, go early and look for wildlife !
Liked everything. This area is one of the best and do not miss the boat ride on e lake."
"The Mailgne Canyone was fab! Great walk, great views, great canyon! We really enjoyed it. It's definitely worth a visit!"
Due to the high melt waters this year the canyon was even more spectacular than usual. We took our dog for a hike to the first two bridges but there are many people who take an afternoon and hike to the 6th bridge which is well worth the time.
A very easy walk around a very narrow linestone canyon. Roaring water and geologically very interesting.
"On the road, we saw lots of bighorn sheep, a deer and even a bear up close. The danyon itself is a nice hike."
No good for who is travelling with babies without a back carrier!apart of that a visit is worthty.....
It is a must to see. Take the time to walk around it as the canyon goes as deep as 53 metre (15 storey building). It is a nice walk to do with childrens.
"A must for anybody visiting Jasper. We had seen the tourist brochures and were not sure if it was on our list of things to do but what a mistake to miss this amazing place. The canyon walk is just one picture postcard view after another. It's worth doing the entire walk and get away from the tourist busses that seem to deposit hundreds of people who all walk the same short loop.We started at bridge one and walked the length of the canyon, 7 bridges from memory and returned on the shorter trail. It takes 2/3 hours and is an easy hike with plenty of stairs. A great family activity. The kids, 6 and 8 enjoyed the hike and completed it easily."
Absolutely incomparable scenery and views during any season. Watch for Big Horn Sheep and Elk. Also Bear and Mountain Goats. Walk through the canyon on a guided hike in summer or cruise the lake. In winter the canyon ice-walk is especially remarkable and memorable. Bring a camera for astounding sunrises and sunsets.
Was amazed to see this unique bit of geological diversity just outside of Jasper. Canyon drops precipitously as you follow it down the trail with the river flowing over numerous falls but it looks like you could jump from one side to the other. Signage along the trail is very informative and descriptive.
"What a beautiful place! The views are absolutely stunning and accessibility is amazing! This is definitely one of the most interesting places in Jasper national park. On a practical side, start you hike from the second bridge, go all the way to the closed fifth bridge, and then take shorter trail 7h back to the parking area by the second bridge. This will save you some energy and will also provide an opportunity to enjoy some very nice views from the top of the hills above the canyon."
"We visited shortly before dusk in order to have the opportunity to see more wildlife. We saw bears and deer in a great setting.
One of the highlights of the holiday"
"This is a very special hike. We started at the 5th bridge (recommendated) where there was less crowd, hiking down to the 3rd bridge. We then hiked back to the 5th bridge and drove to the normal starting point and did the 1st and second bridge. The trip took a total of 2.5 hours and very enjoyable."
"The maligne canyon is relatively close to town. There are several hikes around the Canyon - different distances for every level of fitness. This can be realy crowded, so plan to arrive early. Some paths were closed when we travelled. Plan for a 2 hour stay to compltely enjoy."
"Very unique and you can get a great look down in, from the first 2 bridges, which are only a very short stroll. (10-15mins?) Don't miss it - you'll be glad you stopped!"
It was really beautiful there alot of tourist the way down was alittle crowded but everyone tried to get really close for there chance to look. We really did enjoy the hike.
"It is a very nice attraction. There are different trails, we choose to hike all of the bridges (except 5th, it was closed), it is interesting to see the power of the water, and the nice waterfalls. It is worth to save approx min. 2 hours for the Canyon.I think it is a must see attraction in the Jasper area."
"We were amazed at the depth of the canyon, with the water over 150ft below us. It is just so incredible that water can carve rock like it does! This is an amazing place to stop and visit, but it is not for those with limited mobility. The trail down the canyon is well maintained, but has very steep sections, many stairs too. One should be in reasonable shape if you plan to follow the trail down! Near the top has the pre-requisite souvenir/gift shop and a small restaurant. The food is pricy here and if you're thinking of a meal it's worth it to go a little further and eat at the Maligne Lake resort. The food is better both in price and quality."
"We did this hike with our two intrepid boys (9 and 11). We all loved it. There is a steep cut off option that is challenging but very fun. Much more interesting than the fire road. At the top the alpine meadow is gorgeous and full of marmotts. The hike continues up to a ridge that has to be seen to be believed since it opens up to mountains on the other side. We got chased off the mountain by a storm, but if we'd had more time we would have hiked longer along the ridge. It's a bit of a drop off with kids so if it's windy be careful."
This stop was well worth it! Simply gorgeous canyon we good walking paths. The rushing wateralls and deep gorge make for a spectacular stop.
You stop in a parking lot that looks real common and little do you know that a short distance away is one of the worlds greatest specticals. There are six bridges and the views get better as you go. You look down on deep gorge that looks like it was cut with a knife. You will find several waterfalls and the mist will cool you off from your strenuous walk thru some scenery like no other place on earth.
"Beautiful views, easy walk. A little chilly, so bring a sweater. More importantly, bring your camera, as you won't want to forget these views."
"There is plenty of parking at this free attraction. The nature of this attraction means you will be going down and up stairs, but if you take your time it's not too strenuous. The common path is well groomed and fenced for your protection (photo). For those more adventurous you can walk on the other side of the canyon on a more challenging open trail (photo). If you plan to do both I recommend walking down the open side and back up the stairs on the fenced side, climbing up on the open side is more strenuous. The canyons are deep and some may require a flash to try and photograph (photo). The rushing water make a rainbow friendly mist in many places (photo). We really enjoyed visiting this attraction and would recommend it."
"Views and friendly staff on board Lake Cruise!the facilities and cafe where very good,and reasonably priced"
Great scenery and waterfalls. Walks were good. Shame some of the longer walks were closed hence only a 4 overall.
"I did a little wildlife hike with a 6 year old in tow, so it wasn't strenuous or very far but it was stunning scenery and very interesting. We also saw a big black bear sitting in a bush eating berries so this made it for us. Lots of Big Horn sheep on the road to the Canyon."
This limestone canyon is deeply eroded in places making some interesting rock formations. We took the short hike across a series of bridges that allow you a look into the canyon. It is difficult to get good pictures in some areas due to the depth and darkness of the canyon but your eyes can see natures work. Do take the hike and learn how this canyon got it's name...it is well deserved.
Thr road to the canyon was a little hairy at times with practically a sheer drop at one side but it was worth the drive.
"Decided to hike the short trail... IMPRESSIVE. Roaring water through deep gorges viewed from above via a series of bridges. Do not miss. If you have more than an hour or two, hike the remaining bridges for an unforgettable experience. Even my wife tolerated me stopping to gape and photograph at every opportuniy."
Moody and atmospheric in the misty day we visited; impressive depth and emphasises power of erosion by water
"On the way from Jasper to the lake.
The natural setting is spectacular and the power of the water is quite amazing."
"Only a short drive from Jasper on the way up to Maligne Lake and the cruise.First observations. A choice of several hikes of varying lengths and degrees of difficulty. There is road access from a couple of places. A tea house restaurant is on site as well as the inevitable gift shopOn arrival the first challenge is to find somewhere to park. This is complicsted by the fact that most of the visitors including me have never been here before, so working it out requires some patience. If you have been sitting in the car for a bit as we had then there is the wait to get into the long drop style washroom ( oh the ambience! ) and then discovering that had I walked to the tearoom the facilities are much mor civilized.The walk around the canyon is a mix of well made paths and some very basic trails. having said that there were those intrepid adventurers who had the strollers with the massive wheels who turned up in what was to me the oddest places.If the carpark was any indication the venue was being well supported on the day. The road to Maligne Lake and Medicine lake was closed just past the entrance due to a mudslide and that may have influenced the number of visiters. Walking around though it did not seem crowded. you never had the impression that you had the place to yourself but you were never struggling to get to see the views either.We managed to negotiate the 40 minute walk with not too many issues because I am an expert at manufacturing a photo opportunity to have a rest. I did get some great shots though.We enjoyed a satisfactory meal sitting out on the balcony at the tea room restaurant. a bit pricey but you expect that really. The gift shop amazed me. There is the typical cheap stuff to be found and the T shirt with the bear on it etc. The one that blew me away was the Jade bear with the $1,000,000.00 price tag. that and the fact it was just sitting there where you could reach out and touch it. Unbelievable."
A great place to visit with incredible views of a natural wonder. The walk is relatively strenuous for less active visitors.
"The canyon has options to suit most people from a short walk or a lengthy hike depending upon the time available and in the Winter months guided icewalk tours can be arranged. It is located about 15 minutes drive from Jasper along the Maligne Lake Road. We were there in early October 2011 when there was no snow or ice and we started from the main car park near the Maligne Canyon Restaurant and Gift Shop and Bridge 1. We subsequently discovered that access and some parking is also available at Bridge 5 for those who prefer to finish their return trip downhill. Follow the signs as appropriate.The deepest section of the gorge is at Bridges 1 & 2 (near the restaurant) where you can look down from dizzy heights as the river makes it way downstream and over a 23 metre high waterfall. This area has some fossils visible in the rocks on the pathway.The trails at this section are well constructed and fenced for safety reasons however other sections are not and we were glad we had hiking boots when we reached some muddy sections and rougher ground later. Some may debate the value of going beyond Bridges 1 & 2 but if you are looking for a good walk I would recommend continuing along the gorge - we found it an attractive route with plenty of variety and interesting sights.We followed the meandering main path downhill between the trees, sometimes finding ourselves at the same level as the river bed and at other times high above, looking down. There are small waterfalls along the way around Bridges 3 & 4 and beyond including one known as Bridal Falls because of the way the water cascades like a bridal veil (it’s quite a small cascade so don‘t get your hopes up too high!). A section of trail, before Bridge 5, traversed a slope which was sodden and it was here that the boots were handy to keep dry and maintain grip. Bridge 5 is a long narrow suspension footbridge spanning the river across to a car park area. After a short photo stop and wait whilst a couple tried to persuade their dog to cross the “bouncing” bridge, we started to re-trace our steps briefly back uphill. The trail splits three ways just beyond the suspension bridge and though it’s not too clear where these go we decided to travel on path “7f “ which is a horse trail, running parallel to the route we had come along but higher above it for the most part. The other trail heading into the forest leads to Bridge 6. I must admit that on some of the narrower raised parts of ""7f"" I was glad we had boots - it must take a bit of trust in the horses sure-footedness to go along here on horseback. Although this route gave a different viewpoint, especially at the beginning, it was less interesting than following the river’s edge which I would recommend doing at least one way.We spent about 3 hours on the trails and by the time we got back to the main car park we were ready for refreshments. Signs pointed to the “Tea House” however I think this must be of historic reference. The Tea House restaurant nowadays is essentially a large self service cafeteria and at the time of our visit had a distinct end of season feel. There were few guests and the menu choices were displayed in MacDonald’s fashion behind the counter. We had sandwiches, which were made to order but not great and some chilled drinks. (The salmon for example was a paste). There is an outside terrace with tables which would be handy in warm weather. The building also houses a curious gift shop which includes a huge selection of native arts, some with very expensive price tags, packed in alongside some typically tacky giftshop items costing a few dollars. Some of the (dusty) jade pieces look superb and you could imagine these would be at home in an art gallery rather than as displayed. The whole operation needs a major revamp to realise the potential, better serve visitors and in the case of the gift shop to better promote the native artists."
"It's wet when I visited this place. The wind blew softly and cold. The canyon and the river gave a spectacular feeling. Hiking in this place is fun. However, you need to be careful to step on the mud. if not you would fall down to the river. I love this place"
This is just beautiful and because of the number of the bridges you can do a short easy walk around the top bridge or extend it and make it a bit more difficult. We saw quite a few gorges on our Rocky Mountain travels and this definitely stands out; really impressive. We were there on a day when one of the Parks staff was at the top talking about it (I think this happens a couple of times a week at scheduled times) and the extra information really adds to the experience. If I was ever back in winter I would definitely do the ice walk.
"Only a small canyon with the river pounding through it but really stunning and the power of that water, WOW ! several viewing points where you can also cop a bit of a spray. Seen other reviewers photos when frozen over, that must also be stunning."
"A nice path for a walk with magnificent views. Plan on about 2 hrs
The tea house at the top of the canyon is a nice treat after the hike"
The rockies what can I say!! We saw Black Bears and a .grizzly on our trip. Maligne Lake and Spirit Island what a magical place
Don't miss this on the drive to Maligne lake. Also we spooted lots of wildlife on the drive. Nothing to dislike. The force of water is amazing.
"Bring comfy shoes - lots of stairs. bring your camera. Don't bring your child in a buggy -- you will be carrying both child and buggy a lot of the time! It isn't a long hike -- but it is arduous. worth it, tho"
"This is one of the ""must-see"" places in Jasper. Easy walking trails follow the rushing river that runs through the canyon. Lots of waterfalls and great photo ops."
"In places actually too deep to see the water at the bottom though you can always hear it.
In the scale of things, fairly close to the Jasper townsite and not to be missed."
"Make sure that you do not confuse this with the drive up to Maligne lake. Soon after you take to the road, you will be signposted to a car park and there are walks down the canyon from there over the bridges. Worth the time out"
"The water was high this year. We usually like to walk down the canyon, beyond where most of the tourists go, but the weather was a little dodgy this year, so we only did the short tourist loop, which definitely highlights the upper canyon, the most spectacular part for sure."
A bit of uneven walking. We all liked the falls. Our guide gave us a geology lesson on how the 165 ft deep river was carved out of the rock.
"We were there on a rainy day, which made the river through the canyon roar even louder and look even wilder. If you're up to it, hike past the crowds, who will only hike in a few steps and go back. Then the trail is not as crowded. We also took the upper trail back, which helped to avoid the crowds going back."
"Worth the drive up, It wasn't a long hike to see the best part of the waterfalls. It was loud and magnificant !"
"Trail goes along the gorge. Not for the Handicap except the first and second bridges. Roaring water, nice forest and mult bridges so get a better view."
"We enjoyed hiking Maligne Canyon. The actual canyon is very accessible for many levels of ability but is crowded, so go early or late in the day."
"Leave some time for this one. It is a great walk with exceptional picture spots. Late in the day the trail realy slows down which is really good, because at peak time it is crazy busy. Take the bridge walk going and if you want to speed up coming back take the high trail."
"Great place with bridge 1-6. But the bridge 2 was the first one after you park your car, unless you park the car to be in front of the lodge. The Lodge served lunch - not so good and expensive."
"Pathways good, nice walk round. Gift shop/cafe/ restrooms very good. Went before ten and it was quiet and peaceful. On the way to maligne lake which is about 25 minutes further on, glad we stopped at the canyon first"
"Impressive gorge with water surging through.
Don't forget the bug repellent. We forgot and paid for it."
"A very short drive from Jasper and very impressive. Be prepared for a steep hike back up. The canyon, and the way that it was formed, is very interesting and beautiful. Worth it to walk down the path to view from all the bridges."
A mudslide had closed part of the hiking area. Check before you head out. Awesome scenery. Easy to moderate hiking.
"Really nice canyon, and nice walk to do.
We prefered the first part of the canyion when it's deep, after it's also nice but less impressive.
Its a must do in the area !"
"If you go here thinking of a canyon as being like the Grand Canyon you will be very disappointed. It's tiny, but well worth the visit. The trail leading down the canyon is either steep or stairs. Along the way are information boards describing the geology etc. We walked to the forth bridge and back, this section is where most of the waterfalls are. I think this took us about 45 minutes. The walkways are mostly tarmacked. The canyon edge has protective barriers all the way, so it's safe. Go early as the car park is not very big and the walkways are quiet. Wear shoes with a good grip as it's damp from the spray."
This was an easy and short walk to the canyon. There are longer trails to different viewpoints but this is a great place for someone who is unable to walk very far.
"Not for the faint of heart...or foot - lots of steeper walking trails, but well worth the visit! The trails are well maintained, and the bridges offer unparalleled views of the canyon"
"With a short ride, it's possible to achieve the end of the trail. Starts as common, but afterwards the nature reveal all its power. The place is calm, awsome and difficult to describe. Columns of stones rise from the earth and you can see all of this from the above. All for free."
"If you are looking for a nice long hike give this senic one a try. Some of the path gets skinny, so I would hold on to the little ones. There are places to stop and have a little break while enjoying the view."
"Really nice location, did the short work due to time constraints but would have loved to have done much more - one to go back for when we return to Canada"
Good half-day trip (by car) from Jasper with great views along the way. Worth visiting Medine Lake on the same outing.
"Follow the raging river down the canyon and pass by ancient fossils in the rocks, and delicate orchids poking out of the moss -- it's a lovely walk and memorable in summer and winter."
"If you can go early or later in the day and avoid the crowds, this is a wonderful walk along the river with fabulous views of raging water you would not want to fall into . . . though it is tempting."
Nice place for Nature lovers.Won't say quiet as it is tourist happening place.Worth watching it with overall 45mts loop.
"Impressive mountains, nice walk/hike along the stream/gorge. Glue green lakes. Saw some moose and a bear. Great photo area"
"It does not get better than nature. We did not let rain stop us from visiting the canyon. It is awe-inspiring and well worth it, rain or not. I have read that it is great to visit in the colder weather also. We took some great pictures and even in the rain, the canyon had plenty of visitors. I recommend this if you are in the Canadian Rockies."
"Check this out, not far to walk to see some amazing views, be careful though rocks near water were very slippy."
"Well prepared safe walkways, well signed and informative information boards allow a very good view of this unique and spectacular natural feature."
"The Maligne Canyon drive is well worth taking. Although 6th and 5th bridge roads were closed when we were there, we did the drive and hiked up from the bottom of the canyon to 4th bridge. Saw some wildlife and some beautiful mountain vistas. We took our time and savored the drive/hike - plan about 3 - 3.5 hours."
Saw the most wonderful stag elk by the side of the road. Due to previous high rainfall all the lakes and rivers were really high so it was quite spectacular.
A fabulous view once you got to the top. Not for anyone with walking problems as it can be a struggle with uneven terraine - wear sensible shoes and mozzie spray!
"nice 1.5-2hr hike along the Canyon up to 5th bridge, closed thereafter due to flooding. Some impressive views, you will need sturdy footwear (many roots etc) - stop by on the way up to Maligne Lake"
"Good hiking here - you can decide how far you want to go - there are a series of bridges over the canyon. To go to the 4th bridge and back, only about 40 minutes. To go to the 6th bridge and back, at least 3 hours. Go early to see wildlife on the way...."
"I've never done altitude well, so I was taking breaks often, but the scenery along the path was just awesome. Once again, we were reminded just how powerful water can be!!"
"This year's high water levels and ongoing rain, has had a benefit at this location - amazing water in the gorge. Loved it!"
No photos can do Maligne (pronounce MALEEN) Canyon any justice. The canyon is many hundreds of feet deep with gorgeous colors on the curvy canyon rock and the rushing water below. Definitely a must see and it's quick and easy if you don't have a lot of time.
"We found ample parking near this narrow canyon. You walk along and above the the river as it cuts through this narrow canyon. The area around the first four bridges was the best. On return, be prepared to walk up a steep incline toward your car."
Maligne Canyon is very scenic. It is steep and has a waterfall. it is well worth a walk along the self-guided interpretative trail.
"This is a very pretty narrow canyon or gorge, with mostly easy walking. The walk is adjustable to your capability. After the fourth bridge, the walk is quite a bit longer, with no maps reminding you of where you are or where the loop goes. Still it was really neat to see the volume of water increase down stream because of subterranean aquifers feeding into the canyon! These are more apparent near bridge five. This tour can be 30 minutes, but I recommend 1.5 hrs."
"And we kayaked on Lake Maligne afterward, which was a nice combination. Lake Maligne is about a half hour past the canyon and the road there is filled with gorgeous views and wildlife."
"Completed some fantastic walks around this amazing canyon, which ended a perfect day experiencing raw wildlife and the wonder of Maligne Lake itself."
Easy to walk around with many places to stop and take in the sheer power of the water. There is also a handy cafe and giuft shop.
"Close to Jasper, look out on road to it for wildlife of elks and bears feediung on berries on roadside.
Great opportunities for photos of the deep twisting canyon with its rapid waters"
"Nice walk around both sides of the canyon. Very deep and tremendous falls. Right off the parking lot, easy access."
"Maligne Canyon is a must see. Not far in off the highway going into/out of Jasper.I suggest sneakers or some kind of hiking shoe/boot. I can say this from experience as I did this wearing FLIPFLOPS, and I don't recommend it to anyone! Haha. The way down is...lovely...all DOWNhill...but the bad news is...you must go UPhill to come back, obviously, so it's not a hike for everyone, but there are steps, paved pathways, and some dirt portions to the trail along the canyon.Breathtaking views, stunning falls, and if you are doing this on a hot day, the cool breeze and the spray coming from the very fast moving water is refreshing!"
"In the Canadian Rockies, the value of the experience depends on the amount of effort you are willing put out - more effort, better experience. This place is well-publicized so gets quite crowded. But anyway, if you just stop and go to the first bridge you won't see much. You need to hike to the fourth bridge to experience Maligne Canyon."
"This is a great short walk with exciting views of the canyon. It is worth doing, but does get very busy which detracts from the atmosphere a bit."
"We go to Maligne Canyon once every season. Amazing any time of year, but well worth seeing once in each season. Check it out!"
"The river and falls were roaring and gorgeous. We aware that the trails, other than the one designated as easy, is a strenuous walk requiring proper shoes. Mosquito repellent is a must but the scenery is worth it."
Make sure to start at the trail at the tea house so you won't miss the beginning of the gorge.
Ound a nd sight amazing. Saw animals elk and bear on the way in.
The canyon itself has a wow factor but after heavy rainfall or snow melt it will take your breath away
Went here after a big days hike in the bald hills so only walked from the first bridge to the 4th and then back. Really impressive powerful river gorge. Railings mean you can get close to the churning river such that you can feel the ground vibrate. worth visiting !
"Coupled visit with a boat trip on Maligne Lake. The water was running high and cascaded deep into the narrow canyon. Walkways enabled you to see from several angles. Restaurant and Gift Shop OK, but mosquitoes were pesky if you ate outside."
"had our family of 14 adults and kids, super hot but great hike"
"Interesting place to visit. The canyons were really deep. Went in the afternoon, not the best lighting for photography, but still interesting to watch. Walked to the 4th bridge and drove to the 5th and 6th bridge."
Amazing canyon on the way to Maligne Lake immediately off Maligne Lake Road
"Beautiful, easy drive with great views along the way. Saw a black bear and 12 point elk along the road."
"just a great trip with an excellent guide. make time to do this,you will not be disappointed"
Maligne canyon is simply beautiful. It will be difficult if you have mobility problems but the river as it flows down the canyon is dramatic. We were perhaps fortunate that there had been heavy rain and a late snow melt so the waterfalls were unbelievable. The cafe / restaurant is better than most.
"We did have a walk around the top of the canyon, you can do a lot of walking here. We had a picnic and then also went down to the lake for a boat trip which was also good. We saw a lot of wildlife along the road towards the lake. A nice area to visit."
Would recommend this site to everyone. View is outstanding
We saw a bear coming up the steep embankment. What an added bonus!
"An amazing full day experience: the Maligne Canyon, the Magline Lake (and boat trip to Spirit Island), and many trails."
"Views were wonderful. You cross over the canyon on many bridges (up to 6) so the views and angles keep changing. Small but spectacular.
Bring bug spray."
Wanted to get out into nature and do some hiking. This was fantastic. The views absolutely breathtaking and with hiking at different levels of ease is sure to offer something for everyone!
Paved path that goes 2 km around the canyon. Beautiful way to see the area without having to hike through the area. Ample parking and hilights well documented by parks Canada.
On the way to Maligne Lake. Interesting stop. The parking area is like Disney in the Rockies. Hopes rise - this must be good.... but there are more impressive canyons of this type elsewhere in the world. Go when it is relatively cool - will enjoy it more. If you are pressed for time give this a miss. Does not live up to the hype.
"It was our first canyon. After it others were really poor... but if you want to walk trough all of it (well, not all, but if you want to take a long trip), be prepared that it's a pretty hard way back. We found another way to walk back - it was much shorter but we had to walk upon the hill. My husband who is not a sportsman was really tired. But it definatelly worth it!"
Maligne Canyon is a must! Nice little hike and the water falls is absoutly breath taking.
This canyon is really stunning and there are different options for hiking/walking depending on fitness and time.
An amazing place. Really accessible and puts all other canyons to shame.
The walk through the canyon is amazing. Wonderful geology. The restaurant has a cafeteria type feel.
"well constructed trails, information signposts. A nice restaurant and bathrooms, a gift shop"
"We were there in June and it had been rainy, so there were many spectacular falls around Banff, Jasper area. But this falls is not to be missed There is a nice, safe trail to walk along the falls and several bridges to cross so you can really see the depth of the gorge the falls have carved out. We went as far as the 4th bridge and got really good views. The hike down is easy, the hike up is also okay, just take it slow."
The trail through the canyon is so interesting and beautiful. We have hiked all over the world and we place this hike in our list of top ten hikes
"We only did a short hike i think Bridge 1-3 and loved it, it was easy going down but coming up was hard but not too hard, we had a toddler and he walked all the way up."
Our group of 4 decided on the spur of the moment to stop off at Maligne Canyon and were very pleased we did as it was one our favourite places visited during our Canadian trip. The scenery was beautiful and the force of the water was amazing. Definitely worth a visit in our opinion. Maligne lake was lovely but take your mozzie spray as they were like a fog in places around the lake. On the road to and from the lake we were lucky enough to see several bears.
"Maligne Lake is worth going to over the canyon. It was a nice attraction, but not breathtaking. I would spend my short visit elsewhere like Mt Edith Cavell Glacier"
The narrowness of this canyon is impressive. At this time with very much water in the river making an impressive show
Apart from the annoying mosquitoes this was an amazing site. Waters much higher than normal created a massive deluge of water with awesome power. Nearby cafeteria and giftshop also well worth a visit.
"Great site, beautiful views. We took the boat ride and it was worth the money. The lake is so peaceful and surrounded by mountains."
This was a great way to start our travel of Jasper. walking from Parking Lot at Bridge 5 up to the Tea House was a wonderful look at the canyon and was the right distance to keep our 9 year old from complaining too much.
We visited at a time when a lot of water was rushing through the canyon and it was amazing to see the river raging through a narrow deep canyon. Worth the visit! Look for the fossils.
Very beautiful view. Relaxing . We enjoyed spending some time there and taking pictures
The water was probably at all-time highs and spectacular to see. It was even lightly raining and we loved it.
The hiking trails are well marked and maintained. A fantastic photographic opportunity.
"Great views of the falls. Great trails to explore. Neat plant life in summer and great ""ice""scapes in winter!"
This was a great hike that anyone of any experience could do. You can choose how far you'd like to go and the scenery is breathtaking.
There are differnet trails to explore at Maligne Canyon from the easy to the hard. We didn't attempt the hardest but the other two were good fun and still very tiring! Beautiful scenery to be found.
"Must visit for the uniqueness of this Canyon. Hike is beginner-moderate with steps down hill and uphill. Plan to spend atleast an hour exploring the geology, scenery, roaring waters.."
Going down is easy...coming back up is a good work-out! Bring your camera! At least the price is right...free!
Beautiful canyon!!! Short hike down to pot hole. Kids loved it.
"We were there after heavy rain a few days ago, and the water falls were just majestic. Good nature walks."
A nice walking trail with different views of the canyon and raging waters every few meters.
Very fortunate to see this canyon in full flood. Lots of snow melt and heavy summer rain has its advantages for visitor to the area.
"The glacier runoff waters come down the wide Maligne Valley and crash through a very narrow canyon, the Maligne Canyon. It is an amazing sight. The trails and bridges through the area are very well designed by Parks Canada. This is a must see destination."
Nice walk and great gift shop. Make sure you stop by bridge 1 because it the best part of the whole walk. The water is really high right now so it look really neat
"Very good access, big carpark, easy to walk down and the first bridge, only 5 mins walk gives you excellent views on the canyon."
The trip from Jasper to Malign canyon and lake is a wonderful way to spend a leisurely day hiking in the beautiful rockies. Lots of animal life and scenery to die for!
a little walk to remember the wonders of earth take your time and your camera it is a little bit of a workout to go all the way down and up so just go down as far as you can remeberback up is twice as hard as going down
"We toured with Joe Urie, Jasper Tour Company. Even though the day was rainy, we had a blast."
this is well worth a visit...you walk onto a wooden bridge and the narrow canyon drops 16-17 storeys straight down...then there are the rock formations and rushing water. The plant life is worth seeing too. This was a quick stopover but not to be missed
Worth a visit just for the sights. Steep cliffs and some raging water.
An easy hike along a beautiful canyon - perfect in June when snowmelt causes the waterfalls to have tons of water. Great to do with young kids.
Beautiful. Don't mess with the tea house. Go From the first bridge all the way to the fifth bridge.
Its less than 10 min drive from visitor info ctr. You can get directions from staff and the canyon is beautiful spots to see for first time waterfalls viewers . Check online for pics. Thanks
"The car park is close to the canyon and there are information boards explaining the length of the trail.You can decide how far you want to walk - there are 6 bridges and the boards state the length of time it takes to walk to each bridge. The trails are mostly concrete or gravel, quite steep or steps down hill then back up hill. However it is well worth it. In summer a torrent of water squeezed through amazing spaces. Hard to imagine it freezes in winter!"
The canyon is just amazing to see the power of water carving into the rock. Remember to stop by the 5th bridge to go over the suspension bridge. The walk from the 2nd bridge to the 3rd bridge is a steep walk down so be prepared to walk back up.
This was one of our highlights to our trip. The canyon was really neat to see.
"After days of heavy rain, the falls were really gushing. Scenery fantastic, variety of rock formations. Be prepared for some rough walking and take care - rocks can be slippery. Allow about 1 hour to cover the track for 4 bridges, I turned back then, but there are 2 more bridges."
Well worth the short side trip en route to the lake
"Beautiful, impressive and unique.
llow at least the short 20 minutes walk, if not more than that.
(If you’ve found this review helpful, you can let me and others know it by clicking the green Yes below)"
There is a great 3-4hour walk to be done here with plenty of photo opportunities
"Take the road to the very end. This is a great road for seeing wildlife. The canyon is quite spectacular as well.
We saw Elk and many Black bears."
Liked the view points and security measures taken at the site
Very nice and photogenic place. Wish we had more time to do the complete hike
"worth a look nice walks around the canyon either short or longer
nice photo opportunites"
The walk from the top to the bottom (the first 5 bridges) is about 2 km. Absolutely worth it!
"Very close to town, easy to get to. Lots of wild life. and best of all it was free"
This is just an amazing place. We had about 1/2 hour here and it was great to wander about. Don't miss it
Nice hike with pretty falls. Paths are well maintained and we circled back to the car through the woods.
Very interesting visit and enjoyed our walk to see the canyon.
We took the shorter of the two walks and felt very rewarded. The sign posting of what to see and what you are looking at is excellent but just take care of some of the steeper grades and wear good grippy footwear. You won't be disappointed.
"finding out Maligne lake was still frozen, we decided to go to Maligne Canyon without expectations-- took a short easy walk down the Maligne canyon and enjoyed the waterfall views -good photo ops here."
The ice walk in Maligne Canyon is worth the trip to Jasper in the winter . Took the grandkids and they loved it
"I previously gave a five star review to Johnson Canyon down in Banff. Well, this walk/hike is even better. There are six bridges in the canyon. We started at bridge #2 so that the walk back would be downhill. I think that this is the best way to see it as the sights get more and more impressive. The canyon at times is only a few feet in width, but over a hundred feet deep. The walls were sculpted by water much like some desert canyons in Utah and Arizona, only here you are looking down instead of looking up. Many waterfalls, very safe, not a mild hike. If time is short, start at the top and go down to bridge #4."
"Amazing sights,
I enjoyed how you could go to all or only some of the bridges.
It was a great little walk/hike.
Great sceneic photo opportunities for sure"
"Falls were lovely, and there were several bridges which were good view points. There were distinct pathways which were fenced, so nobody could get too close. But this did also spoil the natural feel."
Hardly promoted but well worth a visit!To see the best of the canyon you need to to take the path down the side of the canyon. The steps are easy but you need to be reasonably fit to get back to the top for refreshment at the tea house.
"Great hike along the canyon, and crossing the bridges is awesome seeing the water rushing beneath"
"Certainly worth a visit, wonderful scenery, magnificent body of water."
"Our family of 5 (children aged 8, 12, 14) went on a Sundog tour of Maligne Canyon in December. The whole experience was fantastic. We were picked up from our hotel (Fairmont) and after being fitted for water-proof boots, were driven to the canyon. With a small group of 8 we never felt time pressured. Our guide gave us ice-cleats to wear on our boots to prevent slipping and we set out on an informative and stunningly beautiful walk through the countryside and into the canyon. We passed many frozen waterfalls that were a photographers dream. I don't know how this place looks outside winter, but when covered in ice and snow, it is breath-taking. Do not miss this experience when in Jasper."
Although it was raining at the time of our visit we still enjoyed the canyon. It is an easy walk. The gift shop is terrific!
Poor sandwiches and coffee but beautiful views. Cant understand why they cannot provide fresher and more varied menu. Gift shop was very pricey as well.
The canyon has to be seen to be believed. It is an easy drive from the Jasper townsite. Even a short walk along the canyon will leave you amazed. The narrowness and depth of the canyon are both mind-boggling.
This is a very beautiful walk. If you feel like something easy you can go as far as the second or third bridge. If you feel like a bit more of a small hike go to the next bridge. After that there is a lot more hiking if you feel more energetic.
"absolutely breathtaking ! The walk down is beautiful, the walk up may be a bit harder for some people...but well worth it for the views !"
"Shockingly beautiful place. Take the full hike down to the 5th bridge, but be prepared with proper footware. Could be tricky in wet weather."
"steep canyon with nice walk through it, the second half of the walk opens out into mountain scenery."
"Hi, we took the long walk. Please remember that this is not a round trip loop like the short loop. It took 1 hour down and 1 hour back. We did not read the sign too well to know it was a one way trip. You end up at 6th bridge. If you start at 6th bridge you can go up and then turn around and go back going down, we went down and at the end had to go up. Very tired.. Got scared we were lost and started to take a horse path but saw the bear poo and turned around. It sure is beautiful but take warning this is not a loop trip on the long walk. They should have a big sign there telling people and not just relying on the map. They should tell people in the parking lot to tell you this trip is down and when you get to 6th bridge the trip back is up. So be prepared. It is a great sight to see, just prepare yourself."
Nice drive. Saw wildlife. Would definitely be worth the trip when the lake is thawed!
"A short drive from Jasper offers this great beauty. With a walking trail around, it offers great views of a rock canyon and falls that have been carved over thousands of yrs There is also a little cafeteria for a meal or coffee after. Excellent place to visit in winter to see frozen falls and climbers but trails can be slippery so wear proper boots. You can get into the canyon to do your own ice walk but do with care. Easy to do on own but if you want information on area a guided tour would be a better option."
We LOVED this hike - it was a gorgeous day with gorgeous views. This is a must-see in Jasper. Wear comfortable shoes and be prepared to hike ~10-15km if you plan on doing the entire canyon. Look out for Black Swift's nesting in the side of the canyon - we actually saw a mama sitting on her nest of babies!
"Splendid scenery, great hikes, rare birds, nice restaurant to rest"
"Would've loved to see it frozen in mid-winter, was pretty impressive as it was."
Lovely stroll over the canyon. At the later time in the afternoon we really were not up for a long walk and this is not. It's a must see on your travels. The snow melt made a great sight. The store was open for business and was doing a great trade. Have a look at the fossils on the path.
We did the canyon walk in February so lots of ice and snow. Sundog tours were our guides and they were excellent. Pick up on time; an outstanding guide who was very helpful and knowledgeable. The scenery was superb. The walk was fairly easy and did not require any special skills. Sundog provided good boots and crampons/cleats as it does get very slippery on the ice river at the bottom of the canyon
"Great walking paths, with optional distances down the canyon."
"Good sight to see the nature canyon
Easy to walk to 2nd bridge, but bad condition to 3rd bridge and the sight wasn't that good
Spring/Summer will be pretty I can imagine"
It is beautiful in summer but breath taking in the winter. My husband and I did the Ice Walk a few years ago and we still talk about it. Definitely do a guided tour as you will outfitted with the proper foot wear.
make sure you go there. it is beautiful. well worth it.
"Definitely a must-do stop and hike.The trail is easy and there's stairs along the way.We parked in the main lot where the entrance to bridge #1 is and we walked just past the 5th bridge and then turned around. The trail was muddy and a bit icy as per the season right now. The water was low and we were able to walk along the water for part of the hike.After that, we drove to the 5th bridge to wander around that area."
"What more can you say? This is one of nature's most beautiful spots. It's a wonderful hike with amazing views that's certainly worth your time. If you do decide to do this hike while there's snow on the ground, I'd highly advise using good hiking shoes as well as maybe some spikes on the shoes as the snow/ice can make travelling up and down the trail quite slippery. As well, I'd advise you to bring your camera to capture a few shots of this beautiful spot. You'll be disappointed if you forget it."
"If conditions permit in the winter or spring, get off the trail and walk the canyon floor."
"If you are visiting Jasper in the winter...highly recommend to everyone to book a Maligne Canyon Ice Walk Tour. If you do, we definitely recommend ""Jasper Tour Company"" owned by Joe Urie. He is knowledgeable, experienced, friendly, informative and has a great sense of humour. He will provide you with insulated rubber boats and cleats to keep you safe in your walk. He picked up and dropped us off at our accommodation. This is a 3-hour tour, expect mild-moderate hiking, bring water to keep you hydrated and dress warmly. The tour through the canyon is beautiful, unique and exciting. You get to see frozen waterfalls, caves and other things Mother Nature brings in the canyon. Call ahead and book this great adventure with Jasper Tour Company. We certainly enjoyed the personalize and small group (there was only 6 in this tour). Worth every penny and you have to see it to enjoy this amazing wonder! By the way bring a camera!"
"Great in the summer, spectacular in winter. A must see."
"Sweet, very cool canyon! Awesome frozen waterfalls, cool rocks!"
"We went on a night trip with ""Jasper Tour Company"" Joe who is the business owner was very good and informative. There were only three of us on his tour but his enthusiam was infectious and he was cheaper then other companies"
I already spoke of this walk earlier - if you can come to Jasper in February or March - this is the hike you must take. Go with a guided tour - the guide will make sure you are equipped and show you so many little facets of this canyon icewalk - a MUST DO!
"In Winter take a guided tour of the canyon frozen in its glory - what an adventure!!
In summer stand above the different bridges to watch where the water has cut out an amazing canyon!"
Took the tour with Chuck from Sundog Tours...definitely a must do!
Most beautiful scenery on the continent. Breathtaking
"This is a great trip for those that don't want to ski, or take in something amazing at any time of the year."
"Booked through Sun Dog Tours (Great people to do business with). Was a little worried about walking on ice, but they provided everything we needed and our guide was great - very knowledgeable about the Maligne Canyon and all of Jasper National Park. It was so beautiful, even the cold was quickly forgotten."
"The trail was beautiful and easy enough to do as a spontaneous walk in the woods at a time of year when not much else is open. Some slippery sections but the railings made it quite safe. It was also interesting watching the ice climbers in the canyone. Definitely worth doing, even part of the way down."
When I have visitors from out of the country I always take them to Maligne canyon. It is beautiful. The walk can be a little tricky for some but it is definately worth the effort. The views from the bridges is awesome.This is a must see if you are in Jasper area. You can also go in the winter and walk along the bottom of the canyon. I have yet to do this but one day I will.
We are not hikers but thought we would try it out and spent a couple of hours hiking along the well maintained canyon trails. This was a great afternoon's walking and is ideal for those of any fitness level.
"We took a tour of the ice canyon, and it was just spectacular! Do not attempt in the winter without ice cleats though- it would be very dangerous!"
This was a very pretty walk to take with our kids.
"Coming upon this narrow gorge, you wouldn't expect to see such a cool sight! You may even see some wildlife on route. In mid, to late June, bring mosquito repellant. But...don't miss it!"
Brillant experience to see the canyon in winter. I did a tour with Joe from Jasper Tour Company and can not wait to go back in the summer time and experience it again.
Nice walk (bit slippery in winter) make sure you wear snow boots and attach ice walkers to them so you dont go bum down. You can hire the ice walkers from downtown for few bucks and they are well worth your money.We started from 5th Bridge and it was beautiful. can be challenging depending on how fit you are.
"We did the night ice walk throughout the canyon. Our guide was EXTREMELY knowledgeable. It's hard to describe if you have never done it, but I can tell you this...when your guide offers rubber boots for you to wear before the excursion in exchange for yours, DO IT. Wearing ski pants is a must as well. There is one certain place that is a natural ice slide and there is no other way down but on your posterior. Very cool UNESCO place to visit."
"Loved being able to show my 5 year old what happens to a waterfall in winter.Easy walking trail, from bridge 2 to bridge 1, even in winter.Note however that the stairs are completely covered in snow/ice, so grippers for your footwear are a necessity."
"I am a bit more used to back country hiking. Nevertheless, well worth the hoof up the hill. Rent or by ice cleats however until the snow fully melts."
Amazing day. Really interesting place. Knowledgable guide. great unique trip.
breathtaking gorges with powerful water...stairs make hiking the gorges accessible
"Going on a tour of Maligne Canyon when she is frozen in her beauty is an incredible experience. Waterfalls are frozen in time as you behold them glistening in the sun shining down into the Canyon, a breathtaking thing to behold. The guide gave us information and facts about the canyon as she is in both Winter and warmer months. Learning the origins of the Canyon was eye opening as is any history one learns about features of the Park. The canyon walk is a definite must do in Jasper in Winter."
"It was cold but awesome. Our tour Guide was incredible at giving us info, as well we did a cave crawl under the mountains."
This is worth the visit. Summer and winter its a great hike and the ice walk in the winter was very cool.
It was the most incredible breath taking experience!! I would do it again. It was worth EVERY penny!!
"Another must see in Jasper Park, with several parking spots and cross over bridges this is a wonderful place to enjoy a hike. For anyone looking for a long hike we suggest parking at the lowest parking lot and going up hill and descending on the return walk to your vehicle."
"Maligne canyon is five minutes out of Jasper with three different lengths of hikes to see the falls. If are wanting to hike up or down and some of your family does not want to take on the whole trip, have them drop you off and meet them at the top or bottom. The top is very beautiful."
"I generally visit the canyon in the winter, hiking in and walking the frozen river up to the falls. It never ceases to amaze me with it's beauty. Every winter the frozen landscape is slightly different. You will usually find ice climbers acesending the frozen waterfalls - beware of falling ice when they are up on a wall. Most of them are very friendly and are more than happy to educate you on the sport and the equipment they use. Until you've been there a few times, I highly suggest going with a tour or a guide. It is a bit of a hike on some very slippery surfaces. Being in a canyon, the sun has a hard time getting into places so it can be quite cool - bring suitable attire and footware. Crampons or ""yak trax"" are a must."
Lake Maligne and the canyon leading to it are fabulous! Why would you go to Jasper and not visit this part of the area.
"Great hike,but wear shoes with really great tread!!! It was really icey, however we went on. We had to hang on to the railings due to the ice. The views are amazing a must see and the ice formations are neat."
Make sure you have good shoes! It's very very icy in the winter.
Great scenery! The gorge is a must see when you travel to Jasper. Great for taking nature photos.
"The canyon is great, and you'd have no idea it was there, the frozen waterfalls look amazing and we saw ice climbers climbing some of them. It's really beautiful out there, just want to make sure you have some good shoes as places are very icy and easy to slip."
"Most of the walk was just a snow walk along the top of the canyon and through the forest, because it's been warm this winter, it's not as frozen as it usually is, i was given the impression i'd be walking through an ice cave, but it's actually just frozen waterfalls, which are crazily incredible! It is so cool to see a waterfall that is frozen on the outside and still see the water flowing underneath. I had a great day out in the wilderness, but i don't really think it's something i needed to pay to be taken on a tour for. Walking through the canyon you would need someone experienced because you'd be in trouble if the ice below you broke, but otherwise, most of the walk can be done without a guide. Fantastic for wilderness lovers, this is definately a place i'd like to visit in summer!!"
"Maligne Canyon is definitely worth a visit if you’re in the Jasper area. In most other areas it would be considered a “must see” but given all the beauty of the area, it was not the highlight of our vacation in the Canadian Rockies. We walked an easy paved trail which gave us fine views (see photos)."
have done this walk twice now and it was still wonderfull the second time around the rour of the water is deafing would recommend it
"It was tons of fun .... best hiking conditions are in spring/summer/fall. The winter is a bit touchy but with some shoe ""picks"" or proper hiking shoes it is doable."
"This was a fantastic hiking trail with lots of beautiful scenery, flora & fauna to see."
"If there is one spot to see, it,s Maligne canyon. Take time to walk down it. Take a picnic. To prevent having to walk all the way back up we often go with two cars. One car parks at the bottom of the Canyon. When we are finished our walk two people head back up to get the first vehicule.If you can't go all the way go down to at least bridge #3."
"Maligne Canyon is a sight to behold in winter, but make sure that you come prepared or go along with a tour group."
Nice and secluded. Please not we visited off season.
Nature at it's best. A guided tour tell you so much more. The pitures we took were amazing.
Summer and winter this is a MUST visit destination in Jasper
"Hike all the way down to the sixth bridge, great way to spend a day."
It is something different to see but I wouldn't drive a long way just to see this unless you are a real river/canyon buff. If you are passing its worth a look.
"The canyon is awesome and unlike Grand Canyon, it does not intimidate you by size. I feel one should not miss this beautiful site when you visit Canadian Rockis.While walking on the ridges one wonder how over the years this canyon carved out this canyon through millions of bitter winters and summers!"
"A light scramble round the canyon, with great views of waterfalls and gorges, with water pouring down through narrow chasms in the rocks and a light mist hanging about above the many waterfalls!"
"The Maligne Canyon walk is a must-do while in Jasper. The walk is well maintained but you should absolutely come prepared with adequate foot wear. Depending upon weather it can be very slippery. The deepest parts of the canyon (over 50m) are surrounded by fencing, but this is not a place where you want to slip. The walk is beautiful. The canyon itself is amazing as you can see how water has eroded the rock in fascinating ways over the eons. Even in November the water was running hard. Our group really enjoyed seeing the ice falls too! We walked all the way to fifth bridge and back in less than 2 hours. We do this walk every time we go to Jasper and it never wears thin."
"After reading a review on here we decided to do a hike up the canyon from 5th bridge and back. The car park was quiet, but did have toilets. Hike was 2.2 km each way, with an elevation of about 160m. We did it this way round so that the walk back was mainly downhill. The day we did it, the temperature was about 25oC. Luckily it was mainly shaded by trees, but we still appreciated the water we took with us. Wouldn’t fancy it in the wet as the trail would be pretty slippery especially on steep parts. 5th bridge is 8 km east of Jasper via H16 and Maligne Rd. Maligne River plunges 23m into a steep-walled gorge of limestone bedrock. Cafe at top car park but we did’t go that far."
"Generally I wouldn't go here during the peak summer months due to overcrowding - going in November as we did was great. We had the whole trail to ourselves minus about 5 people, and it was just starting to freeze so the formations were quite beautiful!"
"Well worth a look - the walks are viariable and not too long, the sights are peaceful and beautiful and you can take your time to see everything - plenty of parking and even for those a little weary there is a short walk to the main falls."
Saw all kinds of wild life and got some awesome pics!
"This is a nice way to stretch your legs. The canyon is quite impressive but i think if short of time there are other places to enjoy. However, if you have time it is a nice afternoon walk."
"Simply spectacular narrow but steep gorge just a few minutes drive out of Jasper. The car park is big with a good shop and cafe. We just did the walk to the first 3 bridges, very steep going down to the 3rd bridge but worth it for the view down into the gorge. It is an amazing natural, scenic walk and was free! We also saw deer in the car park who were quite happy to stand and be photographed. Brilliant!"
"The Canyon is well worth a visit at any time of year, it takes about 15 minutes to do the self guided walk around the top of the canyon crossing two bridges, the second giving excellent views of the main waterfall. look out for fossils in the rocks next tot he rapids as you get back towards the visitor center.You can often spot wildlife in the car park such as elk and big horn sheep, apparently there have even been black bears spoted there."
"The Malign Canyon ice walk is a fantastic experience with massive icicles hanging over your head for most of the walk even before you get to the main frozen waterfall.You may be tempted to just hike up their by yourself rather than paying for a guide but don't, the ice can be quite thin in places where the water is running quickly underneath and with a covering of snow it is impossible to tell where these are without a guide.The guides will also be able to answer any questions about the rock formations or anything else that comes to mind whilst you are up there. if you have them take crampons because they do not provide them. although good walking boot should be enough for most people."
Not that well publicised but worth the effort to make the trip there
Only a short walk to the canyon but can extend for a more adventurous hike!
Loads of wildlife on the road to the Lake and the trip on the boat had a very interesting commentary
"Simple: don't miss this amazing natural site that is so close to Jasper. The full hike from the top to the bottom is long, and there are alternative short hikes too. The beauty of the canyon is a real treat.Bring a snack and a drink with you if you don't want to eat at the cafe at the top."
We started at the bottom and walk UP to the visitors centre. There is lots of variety and the waterfalls can be 51 metres below your viewing bridge. The gorge is narrow thereby inhibiting your view. Well worth the 45-60 minutes round trip but don't expect the spectular.
Been here many times over 23 or more years. Always enjoy going. Do the hike and see all the bridges up or down. You won't regret it.
"A range of pleasant well-marked trails, where you can see this remarkable bit of nature. Choose your walk depending on how far you can manage, but the deepest and most impressive bits are near the first and second bridge. Very quiet when we were there, in the early evening, but the size of the car park suggested to me that it might be crowded at times."
The lake and surroundings are so beautiful they take your breath away!
"A must-see stop for anyone.....the canyon is gorgeous. Very narrow, but starkingly deep. Easy walk on well-maintained loop trail, some elevation change, but there are benches periodically along the trail. Anyone who loves geology will LOVE this stop!"
"We took the advice that I read online about starting at the 6th bridge and walking to the top. It was fun seeing the canyon this way as it got more and more dramatic the further we got, and we were able to hike downhill on the return. Having said that, the walk between the 6th and 5th bridges was mostly along a wooded path, and we probably would skip that part and start at the 5th bridge if pressed for time. The trail was slick in some places, and I would recommend good hiking shoes. Worth the hike for the canyon, waterfall, and some great mountain views along the way."
"We parked at the Fifth bridge parking lot to do the loop walk, starting uphill. We walked up the trail along the edge of the Canyon (Trail #7), continued to the First Bridge, came back down to Second Bridge, went across and took the horse trail (7f) for a short cut back to the parking lot at the Fifth Bridge. Refer to the map in the free brochure Jasper National Park Day Hiking Guide, obtainable from the Visitor's Center in Jasper. The horse trail does come back out and joins the main canyon trail briefly before splitting off again - so be aware of this if taking this trail. Only a few piles of dried horse droppings were present on the trail. It took us 50 minutes to walk up, stopping to take pictures and look over the railing; 20 minutes to walk down the horse trail. If you don't want to do the whole loop, the best part of the canyon can be viewed by doing just the First, Second, and Third Bridges, but you would need to park at the main parking area for Maligne Canyon. We liked Johnston Canyon in Banff and Marble Canyon in Kootenay much better than this canyon."
we went here and we were not disappointed. we opted to do the short walk to the fourth bridge and that took just over 35 mins return. it is quite a steep walk back whichever route you take. Not good for people with mobility issues. Toilets in car park and a nice shop and cafe with good views too. A short ride away is maligne lake and that was really a lovely place to stop.
"We drove to the Maligne Canyon on our way to Medicine lake and Maligne lake. You could either walk from Bridge 6 to Bridge 1 alongside the canyon or vice versa - could easily spend 4-5 hours doing so. We decided to take the easy way. We drove to Bridge 6, Bridge 5 and finally parked at Bridge 1 and walked to Bridge 2 and 3 and looped our way back to Bridge 1. The trails were nice but the views of the fast flowing river from bridges 5&6 and of the canyon from bridges 1-3 were amazing."
Need to be active to enjoy it all. Well worth the time needed to get round it all.
"Beautiful canyon. The hike is not steep at all, but it gradually goes uphill. You can actually start from the bottom or from the top, but we started at the bottom and worked our way up. It’s a nice reward coming back to be going downhill. You cross a number of bridges, and get to see the workings of the water into the canyon, which is pretty spectacular."
"The Canyon is one of the more popular places in Jasper to visit. Worthwhile, as it is close to town and the gentle hike is great for all ages. It is really beautiful in the summer time, the pretty water and scenery is nice. If you plan to visit in the winter time I highly recommend taking one of the ""ice walk"" tours with one of the tour companies in town. Worth the money! Walking down below in the canyon looking up at the frozen waterfalls is breathtaking!!! Dont forget your camera!"
First trip here. Went as far as the fourth bridge but I would suggest you pack your boots and a supply of water and do the whole lot. We intend to go back and do the full walk. Was lovely and the trails and paths are well marked - stay on them to preserve what is around you. Breathtaking views :)
It is a great drive to Maligne Canyon. On the way do not forget to stop at Medicine Lake and spend some time.It is about a half a day tour and you can stop for lunch at the Maligne Canyan-they have a good restaurant.
Jasper has plenty of natural wonders and this one doesn't disappoint. At every corner on the walking path down into the canyon offers a stunning photo opportunity. Even if it's a rainy day it's still spectacular if not moreso as the stream is much more active.
"Although it was kinda rainy we walked down the canyon, we have done it a few times before and there is always something intresting to see.the water was flowing FAST. wow we could feel the vibrations on the first bridge..beautiful"
"What a lovely place to spend a few hours or a day. I went with my elderly mother and she had no problems walking to the 3rd bridge. ( There are 7 bridges in total) The scenery is the best to the 3rd. Such a DEEP cayon with water rushing below. Took many pictures.Just outside Jasper on the same highway as you go to Edmonton, then turn right on Maligne Rd. Such beauty; not crowded. No admission fee."
It is very lovely. The path is well maintained and there are a number of benches for resting. Almost everyone can make it to the 1st bridge. It is easy to keep going. The gorge is deeeeeep at the top and you walk along the river at the bottom of the canyon. It is the type of place that you want to return to time and again.
I really enjoyed the little walk to the gorge. It is absolutly worth the detour and I suggest walking at least to the 4th bridge to get the greatest shot at the geological uniqueness of this site.
"Maligne Canyon is outside Jasper, about 11 kilometers by car. One can walk down the trail beside the gorge and then back up to the upper parking lot, or park lower down and walk up first and down later. It is a steep and steady incline, but well worth doing. The river pours down a deep gorge, slowly carving out the rocks. There are small bridges over the gorge so one can get a really good look at it. On a rainy day, it is very green and lush in through there - just beautiful and very impressive.."
"This hike we did while it rained on and off and it was very interesting to see the canyon. On a sunny day it would be even better. The hike is not too strenuous and you can approach it from the top or bottom. The path was very worn, however, and it became very slippery when wet. I would not have wanted to hike under these conditions with small children as the guardrails would allow for a small child to slip underneath to the water below. With proper supervision it would be fine and I think most children would find it fascinating."
"Just hike a little way from the parking lot and the bus tour folks have to turn around to reboard. The narrow canyon could be jumped across in some spots, if you were crazy and not fenced out. The canyon gets deep and we saw some wildlife, a mountain goat and black bear."
"The turn off to Maligne Canyon is near the lower end of the 46 Km climb to Malign Lake – only a 10 minute drive from JasperThe canyon has some amazingly deep fissures at the bottom of which runs a very powerful river which has cut its’ way through weaknesses in the rock structure.Where the fissures are wide enough the river can be seen at the bottom and there are some spectacular waterfalls and rapids.There is a trail beside the river and canyon, with bridges at five six places – and car parking near a couple of the bridges. Walks along the canyon are on reasonably well maintained paths but steep in places. There is a short walk between two bridges near the top car park, which is relatively flat and easy. This is where tour buses deposit their passengers. At this car park there is a restaurant, shop and toilets.There is no charge to hike the canyon paths.Worth while spending a couple of hours here."
This was an amazing place. I just loved it. The scenery is beautiful. My only complaint is that the trails and the length of the trails are not well marked. We ended up going the wrong way and the hike turned out much longer then anticipated. We should have brought more water with us. We took the horse trail back to the parking lot. as we were told this was a shorter distance then the trail and cooler. Beware this is quite the hike up the mountain and I had to stop several times to catch my breath (beware those who are overweight and out of shape)
"The waterfalls at Maligne Canyon have pretty much everything an attraction should have. They are accessible - an easy drive from Jasper; their layout means that even the unfittest can enjoy a part of them, and there is a first-class cafe to hand. Those who want a longer hike have that option, the quick-stop coach tourists get their photo-op and a restroom in a few minutes.,. and yet the place doesn't seem crowded unlike other ""must-sees"" in tne Candian Rockies. Or maybe we were there on a quiet day!And even those in wheelchairs and baby-buggies can enjoy the falls from the teahouse terrace."
"When you travel through Jasper and Banff, you get spoiled because the views everywhere are spectactular. We thought Misaga Canyon was by far the best of the 3 canyons we visited (we are sightseers, not hikers). We had to descend for about 15-20 minutes on the paths to even begin to see Maligne Canyon, which has a series of 5 or 6 bridges going over it along the path. If you enjoy geology, the rock formations/canyon wells are very pronounced. But we found the first half of the walk a bit boring compared to the other 2 canyons; it is only after you get to the 4th and 5th bridges that you really see the most drama with the water rushing through the canyon, in my opinion. It's certainly not average, but if my time was more limited and/or I was traveling with someone having trouble with the descents and climbs back up, I would skip this. Misaga Canyon has spectacular rock formations and waterfalls and is really easy to get to, with much more stunning scenery in the background."
"If your going to the lake make sure you allow yourself time to stop here on the way there or back, you will be glad you did.It's quite spectacular what the water has done, the canyon is impressive. We nearly did not stop here and ened up spending more time at the canyon than at the lake. The walk to the bridge's is easy and not very time consuming unless you decide to go to number 5 which we did not do but maybe should have if the first four were anything to go by enjoy."
"As other reviews have stated,,this is one of the must see nature things in Jasper. You may read hints about starting at the 5th bridge. So here is the deal. There are 5 bridges over the canyon. First bridge doesn't count as it is the bridge to the main parking lot. This is the beginning of the trail. Also at the head is a tea room of some type (Didn't go in) and shopping. You head down and the goal of most is to ge t to the 3rd bridge. The 2nd and 3rd bridges cross over the canyon. This is pretty steep for a novice though but can be done. The problem is, you are going down so going back up can be a bit trying. But it is paved, there are places to sit and there are a ton of tourists to chat with. If you keep walking you get to the 4th bridge (goes over the canyon but doesn't lead to anywhere) and eventually the 5th bridge which is considered the end of the trail. MOST never go past the 3rd bridge but then it's uphill back to your carI did what local say to do. I started at the 5th bridge (where there is a parking lot) and went backwards. So for me MOST of the walk was steady uphill until we got to the 3rd bridge then it felt like it was straight uphill ( I am 60 years old though and live at sea level so for me it was mostly no oxygen as the air was thin for me),,but you are climbing stairs a lot of this way. BUT the payoff was the walk back to the car was really easy as it was mostly downhill. This takes a bit longer then what the average person does becuase you go further, but it was well worth the hike,,feels so good to get into mountain air when one is a city dweller."
"I had read the reviews on here and decided to stop to take a hike at maligne Canyon while on a road trip to BC. It was a great break from the drive. The walk isn't too difficult and you see beautiful scenic veiws in a very short time. The waterfalls and canyon are really a treat and we are glad we made the stop. I recommend stopping if you are on a road trip, or doing the whole thing if you have the time. We stopped about half hour in and came back. It's popular."
Another great half day activity while in Jasper. You can actually do some nice hiking if you wish to start from one of the bridges and hike to canyon or you can drive straight to parking lot. From there few minutes till bridge where canyon is deepest. Remain only on trail some people are getting off walkway and getting close to edge of canyon to shoot good pictures. That’s really risky and actually there are reports of fatal accidents happened in last years where people fell down on canyon.You can hike around the trail is pretty long but the canyon is most impressive where parking lot is.From there you can drive further to Medicine Lake and Maligne Lake.
"Stopped on the way back from Lake Maligne and has no expectations. However, a very short walk from the car park and we were looking at he most amazing narrow canyon cut deep by the water. Really worth stopping here - don't miss this if you are in the area."
There are so much beautiful area's to see in Jasper/Banff. This is one that is a must see.
We parked at the top car park (along with all the tour busses) and just walked 15 minutes down the canyon and over the top few bridges. The views of the chasm were fantastic. If we'd had more time I'm sure the rest of the walk would have been as lovely but we were glad we even made the short stop. Most of the top part of the path is paved which made for easy walking.
"Great alternative winter activity, a guided walk on the trail and through the canyon on the ice.The steepness of the trail and winter conditions makes this walk more challenging than what those who are selling the tickets will indicate. Several places in Jasper rent walking poles and this would have been nice to have rented for the trail.The ice portion is lesser portion of the walk but a must see."
"The canyon is mainly visible on the various bridges that span it along the trail. You can go for a short or long hike, and all of it is very pretty. A must if you are in Jasper."
"Our family stayed 2 days in Jasper and hiking around the Maligne Canyon was our highlight. Had we known, we would have avoided going all the way to Maligne Lake (which we thought was overrated). If you want our advice, spend more time at Maligne Canyon. We started our hike from the parking lot and descended all the way to the fifth bridge (about an hour with our two kids aged 8 and 10). It's coming back up which was tough! If we were to start over, we would have gone up first - starting from the 6th bridge - and make our way up to the top. This is a beautiful place which makes you appreciate the force of nature. HIGHLY RECOMMENDED for families."
"We parked at the fifth bridge which is much quieter than the first (where bus tours drop off their passengers). Walk up to the first bridge - trail is steep in places but well maintained and with steps in the trickiest spots. Amazingly deep and narrow gorge with two spectacular falls on the upper section. If you fancy an easier walk one way, follow the well marked horse trail. Bridge 5 is a fun suspension number that likes a good bounce."
The rock formations are unique and have their own form of beauty. The hike trails are quite nice too. There are some waterfalls too. BRING your Camera!
"Beautiful canyon and nice hike. Suggest taking it from bridge 5, although it doesn't matter all that much since you'll probably just backtrack to get back to your car. Might want to choose between this and Johnston Canyon if you'll also be in Banff and don't have a lot of time. I might pick this one since the canyon itself is more spectacular and it's not as heavily traveled. The falls at Johnston canyon are much more spectacular. If you're a real canyon/waterfall lover, do both. Start early and see it on the way to Maligne lake (which is spectacular and relaxing after hiking)."
"Great hike! We started at the fifth bridge -- it has a smaller parking lot, but we were the first ones there at 9am. Starting here and going upriver gives you the best part of the canyon and allows the downhill return (whenyou might begin to tire) along a backwoods route (7h) away from the crowds turning an 'out-and-back' hike into a loop."
"My trip with my dad to Maligne Canyon was beautiful. We hiked for hours, on winding paths and bridges over the choppy water. Many water falls and wildlife to see, you'll never want to head back! There was a helpfull woman who works there walking up and down the trails for any of your questions, the things she told us were very interesting. Also, you can go ice-picking in the winter when it's all ice, there are many different caves you can go through. I definately recommend seeing this site, it's unforgetable!I recommend packing a lunch :)"
