All nature in the Rockies is impressive and breathtaking. So are the Sunwapta falls. Great in winter and summer
This is a beautiful place to break from the drive and take in the amazing falls and river. Quite a photo opportunity. There are picnic facilities available as well - but it was too cold for outside dining on the day were visited in late October.
"This is a well laid-out attraction, with good parking and a good path to the viewing area, which is just 100 metres / yards from the road. There are a variety of viewing spots, including on the bridge, so if one area is crowded, the others might not be. Not sure if or how carefully the trails are cleared in the winter, so ice grips on the shoes would be a good idea if there's any ice on the path... Of course, falls have an inherent danger if anybody goes outside the fenced areas for any reason, so keep an eye out for any young people who like to goof around..."
"We also visited sunwapta falls, various viewing areas to get a look at the rushing water very nice views though, easy walk"
"Sunwapta Falls is a neat waterfall. There are several good viewing area, with one being on a bridge across river. Falls are a few hundred feet from parking lot."
"We visited these immediately after seeing the Athabasca Falls & have to say although they were nice - they were hugely underwhelming in comparison. If you are pushed for time, go to Athabasca only but if you aren't then perhaps go to these 1st (if possible). Very different type of falls though so are beautiful in their own right."
"We thought of this walk as ""low effort/high reward. The falls are dramatic& the walk is easy. we enjoyed it."
"We stopped here on our tour and it is beautiful. The scenery is gorgeous mountains, forests and of course the falls. well worth a visit"
"Even though you may have been to Athabasca falls, you must also stop off to see Sunwapta. Maybe slightly less dramatic but simply beautiful"
Visit Sunwapta falls on our way from Banff to Jasper. It has a great view. They have a few great view spot for pictures.
Great place to visit. Would advise all who come to Jasper to take the trip out to Sunwapta fall. The falls are worthy of the journey
Fascinating ting to watch the falls and the rock formations that have been made by the waters wonderful to see nature at work
"Again, well worth the time to stop and exploring in order to experience these beautiful falls and surrounding countryside"
Beautiful and easy to reach/see waterfall. Go to Sunwapta after you have seen Athabasca Falls. Both in the same general area.
"Certainly stop to view the upper falls but if you have time (1 hour +), walk to the lower falls. Not nearly the foot traffic of the upper falls, but you will be rewarded with a fantastic sets of rushing water.. Well worth the moderately sloping trail."
"nothing spectacular, just a waterfall into a canyon, lots of parking, a few nice pics, lenty of viewpoints, a good stop on the way to Jasper"
Touring in this region means that you have the opportunity to see plenty of water falls.There are varying opinions as to whether this is better than Athabasca or it is the other way round. I would say they are actually different and you should see both. There is still the roar and foam although I would suggest it is less dramatic but you somehow feel closer here and we sat with a picnic soaking up nature. Break your journey here and get your photos
"Having seen the Athabasca Fall I was hesitant to visit another set but I am glad I did. Really pretty and less busy than Athabasca but just as impressive, nice walk as well if you wish to"
"This falls isn't as spectacular as Athabasca, but still a pretty trail hike and nice views of water. There's an upper and lower section. I liked the lower better. Good to get out and stretch your legs as your drive the highway."
I liked these falls better than the ones further up the road. Firstly it was less crowded and secondly you could take a short hike down the falls to the lower parts. There was barely anyone around and we managed to take some great pics as well as relax and enjoy the scenary in piece and quiet
"As we peered over the cliffs I did not think it was as dramatic as Athabasca but still a great ripping blast of foam, also easy to access. As previous reviewers have said, definitely worth the stop and a beautiful photo opportunity."
"Lots of great places to stop and look on the Parkway and this is one of them - very picturesque, took loads of pictures"
Definitely worth the stop on your way to Jasper NP. More beautiful than the popular Athabasca waterfall in my opinion. A beautiful photo opportunity and very easy to access via a short walk from the parking lot. Loved how the waterfall converged from two separate water sources. Gorgeous!
"Gentle scenic fals without much drama, but easily accessible from the Icefeields Parkway which is a 5 star thing to do"
Another great stop off point on the Icefield Parkway with stunning views and not to be missed photo opportunities.
"Beautiful views and very interesting terrain with dramatic waterfalls, definitely worth the time to explore this area."
"We stopped here because we had seen a sign from the road. Upper falls are lovely, but it is worth the 30-40 minute walk down to the lower falls which we thought were stunning. It was an easy and interesting trail through the trees, bit rocky in places but my parents in their 70s managed it easily."
"This water fall was not far from Athabasca Fall, which was much larger and more impressive. However, the fall was by the highway and a restaurant and a lodge, it was worth a visit anyway."
"This was another fall we visited on the trip through the Rockies and what a place, the noise and breath taking views were fantastic"
"Athabasca and Sunwapta fall are along the same road fairly close to each other and are must sees. The beautiful blue water cuts through solid rock making for a unique experience.
These are much more developed than the little know Todd's falls."
"Not Athabasca, but Sunwapta is still fantastic. And, you can hike just a short distance and enjoy the canyon and lower falls. There are lots of stops along the Icefields Parkway, but don't pass this one by."
We stopped here on our way to the ice fields .Had a great breakfast in the lodge then took a walk to the falls there are some good viewing points on the walk round and the falls were fabulous. We also saw a least chipmunk :)
"We were in need of a coffee stop, and there was a sign to the Sunwapta Falls. Always fascinated by rushing water, we went for a look. We were not disappointed. The power of nature."
"It's difficult to find any fault with nature's handiwork through this part of the country. Natural, gorgeous - you run out of sighs after awhile. Kudos to the National Parks Service for their protection of these natural beauties."
We visited the Athabasca falls and were told we had to stop at the Sunwapta Falls. We were not disappointed and like the place as much or maybe better than Athabasca falls. There is a little bit of climbing and options for great picture taking if you are adventurous enough. A MUST SEE
"wonderful stop on your way on ice field parkway.
these falls were also a must of our trip to Alberta.
powerful falls amazing view.
the walk around the falls is paved with stairs, but short, so families don't really need a stroller."
"Another one of nature's amazing spots to see and hear something out of the ordinary. While the falls themselves are not the most spectacular in the national park, they are impressive for their sheer force. It's worth a stop just a km off the highway."
"Great scenery after a snowy day, the day before. Some of the paths were slippery and I did not venture down them. I could see a lot from up above and it was free."
"Well worth the short detour from the highway. It had rained the day before we visited and the force of the falls was breathtaking. Some good trails to walk too. Visit the lodge restaurant too, we had some great food in there :))"
"Nice trail that goes along the river and all the falls.
A bit of a hill at the top- then a very flat trail through the woods.
Several spots to see the falls
Beautiful!!!"
Must stop and do this...it is well worth the stop for some great photos and a lovely walk overlooking gorgeous rocks/ falls.
Maybe not as spectacular as other falls but much less crowded and still extremely beautiful. A short walk to the falls and around the area and a chance to stretch your legs is worthwhile to see pristine clean water and forests.
We stayed overnight at the Sunwapta Falls Lodge just one kilometer away from the Upper Falls. We visited the Upper Falls and decided to take the trail to the lower falls a very nice and not so long to walk.
Stunning falls and a nice trail in the woods to the lower falls. The walk to the lower falls isnt as crowded as the tour buses just stop for a quick pic of the higher up falls
"If you have time to stop at only one falls, pick Athabasca - but if you have time for two (don't miss Athabasca), stop here and enjoy the view of the rushing water. If you're stopping when the tour busses stop, try coming back another time as you'll be jostling for photo spots. Gorgeous rushing water - worth a visit."
"Not far off the highway, a decent sized car park awaits to visit these falls.A short walk down from the carpark and over a foot bridge puts you in front of this natural wonder within just a few minutes.You can walk further down to the canyon and that too was not difficult, but rewarding.Glad I made the time to stop here"
"These falls aren't quite as impressive as Athabasca Falls, but still very well worth a visit. We walked there from the Sunwapta Falls Resort where we were staying, which was easy, and were glad that we did. There are some nice viewing points."
"If you stopped at Athabasca Falls and thought you didn't need to stop at Sunwapta - change your mind.You have to walk down to the lower falls, about 2km. It is quite pretty, a nice easy walk, and not as congested with people ad Athabasca."
we did all the falls in the area and liked this one best ...excellent hike down to the falls at the end of the trail and places to rest ...breathtaking be sure to do the whole trail !!
I have stopped her a few times this year. There is a long trail if you want to take the entire tour around. I stay close to the falls and canyon area and just and soak up the views.
"Another WOW moment in a day filled with many, many wows! This is a very short hike into Sunwapta Falls. Absolutely make the stop as you can get there in like 10 minutes and stay as long or short as you'd like. Definitely worth it!"
Pretty falls especially with the island almost in the middle and the water going either side of it. Not a must see but if in area and have time then do take a look.
"The view of the waterfall from the bridge is about a minute away from the parking lot, so If needed, can be a quick stop off sight. We stayed a bit longer to roam around the trails a bit and then sat down at a picnic table for snacks and a rest."
"A nice spot, but definitely under-whelming if you visit straight after the far more dramatic Athabasca Falls."
"I was not expecting much.... we stopped here in the misty rain on our way from Jasper to Banff. I am so glad we did! Because it was raining lightly, we did not want a long hike. Perfect! It's a short hike from the parking lot to the falls. First do the viewpoint on the bridge over the falls. You'll be impressed by the power of the rushing water as it cascades downwards. Then as you return to the parking lot, look to your right where the chain link fence descends. Follow this down over roots and packed dirt to a point where you are barely three feet from the water. This is where it all hits you... the power, the force, the intensity. It is just mind boggling. I am guessing that you could hike a bit further if you go left after the viewpoint, but it was raining and slick, so we were more than content with the views we had."
"We were running really short on time on our way to Columbia, so our stop at Sunwapta was very touch-and-go. It's not as powerful as Athabasca, but was another nice waterfall."
You will definitely enjoy this place but would you be excited or not depends on how many other falls you have seen. But the fact is that each of these falls are one of the the many beautiful creations of mother nature. Very beautiful view of gushing water lots of it up and close. The falls are easy access from the highway so it would not really take lot of your time to get beautiful views which makes it worth it. The pathway is well made but slippery at places so watch out. There is a really nice restaurant off of highway before you get on the road to falls.
The falls are located about one mile off Icefield Parkway and the falls are a short walk from the parking lot. There are some interesting rocks and an island next to the falls.
Great place to see the glacier water making a nice falls . closer to road and parking lot be careful when you go in the side . rocks are slippery. safe to watch from the bridge
This is one of the attraction on Icefield Parkway. I would say this is a small falls and we done this in less than 10 min. Not much to admire.
"The views were worth the drive. Easy accessible for people of all ages, even wheelchairs. Not overly crowded. Really were pleased we went. One of the best falls around the Jasper area."
"Just off HWY 93, these falls offer a short trail trip to discover a wonderful set of falls and river. The trail is interspersed with tree roots to make it all the more challenging. You can observe the falls as well as the river, and get close enough to get some great pictures.Parking is free and not far off the trail."
Interesting falls views along both sides of the falls and the deep stream. Wiew the interesting curved rocks and vegetation. Very recommended place. Leave for it 1-2 hours unless you like to stroll longer and arround.
"This requires a hike, trail is pretty easy without severe elevation changes. allow around 1 1/2 hours perhaps more. take water with you there is none on the trail. Enjoy!!"
"A short diversion off the Icefields Parkway leads to the parking lot, from where it's a short walk to the falls. You can hike along the rushing falls for as much or as little as you like. The path has a short bridge right over the water, not to be missed. Incredible display of the power of tumbling water."
We went early in the morning on our way to Columbian Icefield so it was very quite and peaceful. Gushing waterfalls and good walks around if you have time.
"Plenty of falls along the Ice Fields Parkway.
Sunwapta falls needs a short stop when you are travelling along Highway 93."
Drive back a short road off the Icefields Parkway at the Sunwapta Falls Rocky Mountain Lodge (which has great homemade food and desserts!!)Parking lot fills up but traffic does move in and out and you can find a spot. Impressive falls and worth the stop ... see photos
"As the Athabasca falls, the Sunwapta falls are always worth a stop. Again - the best time to visit regarding the light, is the afternoon. Be aware that the access to the falls-viewing-area is through a steep downhill climb. Even though it is paved, it is nothing for people who are not good on their feet or in wheelchairs."
"Sunwapta is a longer hike than Athabasca falls, but absolutely worth the trip! Definitely recommend seeing both upper and lower falls."
"Like everything else, picture perfect. Convenient to get to and worth the short effort to get to. Another good view"
Spectacular falls and worth stopping at for really good views of the falls and surrounding area. Make sure you stop
A great location to stop off and walk the paths to see beautiful waterfalls and endless trees and rock formations.
"Good place to stop on the Icefields Parkway if you have young kids. Beautiful trails through the forest of just the right length, and lovely views of the falls and river. Not too crowded (unlike Bow Summit). Honeymoon Lake is very close to Sunwapta and great for camping/picnic/swim."
"Another amazing experience. The place was busy but it does have a big car park. Once you get away from the start, the number of people drops off pretty quick. Its a good walk to see everything, and don't forget you have to come back up the hill afterwards. I would highly recommend these (and every other!) falls in the Canadian Rockies."
"Roaring falls so amazing to see. They are easy to get to off the highway, with an easy and short hike around. Nice place to stop and the Sunwapta Lodge is close to stop for a treat at there gift shop."
On our Tauck tour we stopped for lunch at the Sunwapta Falls restaurant. Our tour guide said that if we wanted to we could go on our own to see the Falls. They were about 300 yards down the road from the restaurant. They were worth the walk. Several photo ops.
"This charming falls is the place for photographers the scenery is amazing everywhere you look.
This is the place to come when in Jasper National park 5??"
"If you like waterfalls, this is the waterfall of all waterfalls. It's a two second walk from the parking lot, and absolutely worth the stop. I followed a path after the fence ended to get a closer look, and to get down to the rocks. Great place!!"
This was our first stop on the Icefield Parkway so we were there nice and early to avoid the crowds. We were also fortunate enough to see a Black Bear on the side of the road on the way to the falls. We walk3d to the falls and part of the canyon on the other side. Great views.
"Just a short drive off the main road, you won't be disappointed when you stop here. The fall and rock formations are amazing. Do the hike to the lower falls if you have time, you won't be disappointed."
"Merely a few steps from the main road, you will be happy to have walked to this hidden gem of a waterfall and river among the rocks."
"We did the hike down to the lower falls, it is definitely worth it! The lower falls were also amazing to see and you hear the raging river during the whole hike. Took about an hour start to finish."
"Sunwapta Falls carves and very narrow and deep canyon through rock, revealing hundreds of millennia of layering and carving. The deep canyon created by torrents of rushing water is somewhat hypnotizing. As it crashes through the rocks the river sprays a fine mist, much like the Niagara mist. It is thoroughly refreshing."
"worth only seeing if in the area, would recommend the drive along the old highway to jasper as more scenic"
Short walk downhill to falls on paved path. Quick stop on way to/from Jasper. Nice because it wasn't busy & falls beautiful.
A lot of waterfalls in Jasper that on there own would stand out but can get lost among greater ones like Athabasca. These are great but not as great as others in the park
You can stop here and view the upper falls from various viewpoints and take pictures etc but we found it so beautiful we couldn't leave without walking the trail to the lower falls as it was only about 20 minutes. It's not to be missed as it can be viewed in 10 minutes but it'd be worth allowing more time in case you're tempted by the magnificence of the falls as we were.
"It is worth stopping to view this sight, as every sight is little different. The beauty of the nature and the surging water is hard to describe, unless you see it for yourself. The water has carved through the rock over many years and the natural beauty is wonderful."
The view was amazing. Easy to get to and navigate around. Parks staff were there and were great with demonstrations.
You can't believe the configuration of a waterfall with an island right in the middle of the fall do that the river had to split and form two streams to the fall. Just a quirky evolution of nature and a very pretty sight! Check out the 1 km trail to the lower falls and see how the river is tortured through all these rock challenges before heading down the valley. A bit overcrowded but worth taking your time as the crowds move you can swing into action and get your shot! A must see on the Icefield Parkway!
"Can keep this short by popping just to the first viewing areas. We went just as it started raining hard, so my review may be a bit biased, but not much going on here."
"Make time for this on your trip. Well worth the visit and if you want to, you can go all the way to the bottom for the whole experience"
"On Hwy 93 about 40 min south of Jasper, well-worn dirt paths along fenced cliff. Dramatic falls too, we really like it, just watch for exposed tree roots."
"Don't miss this- with the mountain in the background this is a great photo. An up close view at the falls will leave you in awe, then walk down stream 100 meters/yards to see the canyon. Just stunning! See it this trip so others don't tell you what a spectacle you missed!"
"this place is beautiful. The walk to the upper, most famous falls, is barely 5 minutes, however, that doesn't mean it's easy. There are roots and very slick rocks (even though it was very dry) as you get closer. So be cautious when you decide to visit."
"Sunwapta Falls was an awesome attraction with it volume of water and beauty. Just like Athabaska Falls, there were great trails to take to provide better view of the falls and nearby scenery. We even had a nice picnic lunch at the site. Well worth the stop!"
"When travelling Route 93 (the Iceplain Highway) do stop at these falls. Wonderful views at the upper falls, but then take a 20 minute hike to the lower falls, which are equally picturesque."
Don't overlook this spectacular sight. There are various trails to view the amazing gorge and canyon and multiple waterfalls. It is worth taking the time to visit the lower falls via a lovely less populated path through the woods. Watch your step over the many exposed tree roots and slippery stones from the high volume of visitors. A truly gorgeous attraction not to be missed.
"Sunwapta Falls are beautiful, but not as impressive as Athabasca Falls. Easy, short walk to view with different viewing points. Very limited parking, especially if you are towing an RV. Room for short motor homes, but must park along the roadway if you have anything larger, and the road is not that wide. Pretty little bridge over the falls and some Parks Canada personnel with antler samples from. Bighorn sheep, an elk and a deer. Great info and really exciting for the kiddos who were able to hold them. Worth a stop if you have the time and not a huge RV!"
"We travelled from Jasper to Banff and stopped to see the Athabasca Falls. After that we went to the Sunwapta Falls. Both are a short drive from Jasper. The falls in summer are spectacular. Rushing water into a canyon. powerful falls. A well maintained site and good pathways. There is an upper falls and a lower falls, If you are going the lower falls are better"
"One of the important atrractions when visiting Jasper National Park. Quite impressive falls, quite easy path (at least in summer time) to access the falls."
A short walk from the shop is a parking area to be able to go to the falls. Following the river and the walking path give different views and angles of the falls. I found it a beautiful spot.
If you have to choose between Athabasca and Sunwapta I would say Athabasca fall is a better stop to see falls. If you have the time to stop in both attractions thsn go for it.
"We had seen several falls by the time we got to this one, but Sunwapta was very easily accessible and a very beautiful place. Can't see too many amazing falls. And you might see a bear on the way."
We visted a few waterfalls on our trip and every one had been different. Worth stopping at. Watching water forced through a small gap in the rocks is incredible.
If you've been to Athabasca Falls then this won't blow your skirt up. I'm sure the walking trails around are nice and all but the falls are like the younger cousin of Athabasca.
The Sunwapta falls is just around 8km from Athabasca Glacier along Icefield Parkway.It's quite easy to find because of the signs. You have to walk about 50 meter from the parking area to see the falls. There is a small bridge and the cliff are gated for safety purposes. There's a hiking path for hikers or if you want to venture more near the river. Designated picnic areas are available which was nice and convenient. I felt the falls and sound of the water very calming.
"Just a short drive off of the main Icefields Parkway, you will find Sunwapta Falls. They are beautiful. It is so interesting to see close up the power of water!"
"Another waterfall, an above average one if you've seen a lot, but nice nevertheless. It's practically next to the parking lot, which is just a quick 1 min turn off from the main road. Had a lunch picnic there on our way from Jasper to the Icefields. Should stop by if you are in the area."
This is along the drive from Colombia Icefield to Jasper Town and is located after Tangle Falls and before Athabaska Falls. It is not as good as Athabaska but is still an impressive fall and hence is definitely worth a visit along the way to or fro Jasper.
"It's 5 minutes off the main ice fields highway, it's free to visit so you may as well take advantage and stop.
We wish we'd taken a picnic."
Another pretty waterfall with easy access from Hwy 93. Some like Athabasca Falls more but it really is to each his/her own taste. Short walk worth the time & effort.
This is another beautiful stop south of Jasper on #93. The Falls are accessible via a sloping trail and series of stairs. A lovely photo op.
"Some of these comments have been taken from Wikipedia. If you have time it would be worth a coffee stop. Allow for about 30 minutes. Sunwapta Falls is a pair of waterfalls of the Sunwapta River located in Jasper National Park, Alberta.The falls is accessible via a 600-metre access road off the Icefields Parkway, which connects Jasper and Banff National Parks. The falls have a drop of about 18m and is about 9m wide.  Sunwapta is a Stoney language word that means ""turbulent water"". The falls is most spectacular in the late spring when the spring melt from the Athabasca Glacier is at its peak.There are two falls, a lower and an upper one. The one most people see is the upper falls, as access is easier. The lower falls are a short distance away and takes about 4 minutes to walk to that side."
"We were heading south from Jasper and stopped here. After a short walk down the path, we arrived at the falls. There is a high fence around the one section, where the falls are rally raging. And then a bridge over the area that drops significantly. It's a very beautiful area. Not quite as dramatic as Athabasca Falls, but still worth stopping here."
Sunwapta Falls is yet another gem western Canada has to offer nature lovers. The beauty of the area is indescribable.
This is another set of falls off Highway 93. Worth a detour. We say them after a recent drop of snow in May. This added to the beauty (but wasn't as spectacular as some of the icy photos on tripadvisor). A short walk brings the falls into view. The backdrop of snow covered mountains increases the delight in this area.
"This is a must see! Very beautiful scenery of the mountains, the river, and the falls. The paths are easy to navigate and the views spectacular. Parking, restrooms and places to picnic are there for your enjoyment. Only problem is that it is very crowded during tourist season. We were very lucky as we got there in the morning just ahead of the tourist buses."
"We visited Sunwapta Falls on June 6, and the bridge was under repair, so there wasn't much to see. We were told by locals in Jasper that Athabasca Falls was as impressive, if not more so. Next time."
"These falls are amazing. Just a short walk down from the lodge. They are gorgeous. We also had a bite of lunch at the lodge, which was very good."
"Short walk from parking lot to view this spectacular falls. Very nice paved walks to many viewing areas, the river, and canyon. Well worth the stop!"
"Short drive off of hyway 93 to a very nice falls. Nice place to stop and take in nature and view interesting rock formations just like at other falls in the area. Also, as a bonus we saw a black bear not 50 feet from us walking through the parking lot and into the bushes as if we were not there. Even so we were cautious and didn't make any rash moves despite the terror of my partner. Others were moving after it to get that special picture. The fools. But the bear moved on and we heard later that it frequents the area. Even so, I would return to this site to take in the beauty of flora and fauna."
The walk down to the falls is kind of steep. A little hard on my bad knees. But definitely worth the walk around. The water was so high you could actually step in it on a part of the trail. Super fast moving and powerful. Awesome views.
We had a picnic lunch before walking through some of the trails here. This was an easy walk and the scenery was gorgeous.
We thoroughly enjoyed our stay at the cabins and the nature walks were lovely! Quiet and serene. Would do this again!
The parking lot is right next to the falls so you only need about 20 minutes to see the upper fall from the various angles along the bridge/fenced areas.
"Sunwapta Falls are close to the car park for the first stage, the second ones are around 30 minutes walk , well worth the walk ."
"The Falls are in two parts. The first is close to the car park and the second, lower falls a 30 min walk through the woods.Both sets of falls are very accessible close to in complete safety making them one of the most interesting we have seenOur trip was enlivened by a black bear that was enjoying someone's sandwiches at the picnic table. The moral of this is the decision of whether to just stay hungry or consider your safety since, while illegal, leaving your lunch for the bear. Brilliant pictures close to."
"This is the spot used for many photos seen in brochures for Jasper and the Rockies. It is a short walk from the car park. Tip - if you have a thing for symmetry, cross the bridge and you will see some small trails leading down to the other side where all the good photos are taken from."
"It is only a few minutes off the highway so worth dropping in. As ever, try to get there before the crowds, which start around 9.00 am."
"A good stop when driving to Jasper. Great for hiking after a long drive. Nice trails, easy to follow in a relaxing manner."
"It is a short walk but worth the photos. When spring melt is full on, the waterfall will be roaring."
"Another easy hike with a beautiful view. Not entirely accessible to those with mobility issues, but for everyone else it's a piece of cake. I would definitely add it to the list, particularly in spring when the water is moving more."
On our to Jasper and we opted to drop by to Amazing Sunwapta Falls.We will be back here on month of June on summer time .Its great walk down where you can see the falls .Relaxing and beautiful scenery .
Just one of the many little stops along the highway between Jasper and Banff to visit. The falls themselves aren't large but very pretty. Worth a quick stop off the road to look around.
Cannot see the falls unless you can hike a bit of a distance. And the accommodations are less than attractive - way less.
We stopped here on the way from Banff to Jasper. Nice stop and the falls was pretty good. Only a short walk from the car park.
We visited this place in morning while returing from jasper to banff .....Its a good photo stop ..a small island with tress in middle and water flowing all aroun is such a beautiful sight to see and admire
We went to see the falls which are a very short walk from the parking lot. It is a bit steep going down to the bridge. We brought our 2 toddlers and they enjoyed it too. There are more hikes further down as well. Still...More
Even though the waterfall was frozen it was a pleasant walk to and from the falls.An hour is all you need.
When trying to give visitors a quick taste of the Rockies when time is short this is usually on the roster
"There are two sets of falls, and the upper ones are easy to access with just a short walk from the parking area. The upper falls are the ones with an island in the middle of the head of the falls, so you see the river going around the island and meeting for a stunning powerful waterfall. If you're up to it, the hike down to the lower falls is also well worth it. But bring Mosquito spray, we were there in June and it was very buggy."
We did this hike in winter with our 2 and 5 yr olds and they were able to do the hike themselves. The falls are spectacular in the winter and the views were lovely. It is mostly downhill the hike one way so be prepared for an uphill hike the whole way back. Definitely worth going to the lower falls as it is beautiful down there.
Snow shoed to the lower falls. The trail is not maintained in the winter but was visited enough that the snow was moderately packed and we enjoyed our trek. Overall listed as a elevation difference of 87 m. Uphill on the return and doable for average athletic ability. The upper and lower falls are lovely in the winter as well as views of the canyon. Gorgeous natural ice creations and blue-green water.
"The food is very expensive, and pretty good, Great customer service. Perfect place to stop on the way to the Icefields"
Went by during the winter. The main falls were frozenith but still looked amazing.The walk to the actual falls was not that bad. Maybe a 5 minute walk and down a set of stairs. I'd recommend ice clamps if it's snowy just because it does get slippery on the stairs.You are able to go look from different angles and such. Nice place if you want to just enjoy the sounds and sites of nature.
We were staying at the Sunwapta Falls Lodge so walked from there. The upper falls offer a good view but its worth making the effort and walking to the lower falls. We arrived mid afternoon and there were no crowds and we were able to have a peaceful walk and enjoy the falls.
We didn't do a hike but went to see the falls from the viewpoints near the parking lot. Very impressive.
Great location for photos of the falls although on a busy day you could be restricted by the viewing places... Not a lot to see so only had a short trip
"Good hike, come prepared for outdoor adventure. Great hike down to see upper and lower falls. Awesome to see in the winter with the ice and icicles.
Dress appropriately for the weather.
If a fair bit of snow, may want snowshoes."
"The Sound of The Falling Water , rustling , is Great to Listen.
It Rains sometimes followed with Light Snowing..
Great Experience."
Nice viewpoint and easy access to falls. Well maintained trail walk and good for all ages and fitness levels
"The views of the waterfalls aren't great, but at least there's no buses full of tourists. Walking down to the lower falls may or may not be worth it (I went down and didn't think it was worthwhile)."
This spot is 50 km out of Jasper and a tourist trap. I would avoid it and keep driving towards Jasper instead.
"Due to time restraints, We just walked around the main falls near the parking lot. Definitely need to go back and plan to do the longer hikes (1.3 and 6km)"
These falls are breathtaking. The colour of the water is amazing. Each of the falls and natural beauties are different and worth stopping off for
"nice rest stop. i cant put in Oct 2015 as a travel date..so put in Dec we have been driving past this for 35 yrs.,first time we stopped."
If you are on the Icefield parkway you it is worth seeing as you are passing...but not worth a special trip
"Easily overlooked, but not forgotten, easily beats Athabasca Falls for its' pure violence. You know absolutely that if you fall in, you are definitely ""toast""!"
We read that Sunwapta Falls are a must while visiting Jasper area...after visiting other falls in the area we found those falls less attractive.
Easy trail to reach the falls and well worth the effort - spectacular views of the falls are easy to access you can't help but be impressed by nature's power
The Falls are less than a km from the hay between Jasper and the Columbia Icefields and about 63 km from Jasper townsite. If you are travelling through it is worth it to take a break and enjoy the view. There is a large parking lot to park your vehicles or RV's to spend a few hours.
"Nice place for a quick stop while driving to/from Jasper. It was interesting to see how the water had carved its way through the rock; the water level was reasonable, even in Autumn. If you want to see everything, then use it to stop and stretch your legs; otherwise, if you've seen other falls it might not be worth the stop."
"Stopped off on a Brewster coach tour at this spot which was very busy and absolutely wonderful. This was one of these spots that stick in the memory , so many as described in detail by our terrific guide/ driver Patrick O'Conner and Alberto our coach host.We loved the whole trip of which this was one stop off."
"We only stopped here as we were already driving to the icefield, no other reason. It was ok but no miracle of nature."
The falls are okay; good for a quick stop to stretch your legs but you won't regret it if you don't stop here.
"We didn't stay at the resort but we did stop their restaurant and gift shop on our way back to Jasper from the glacier. Much much quieter in the restauant, good food and good prices (than the glacier). Plus, they were having their seasonal closing out sale at their gift shop.Staff were very friendly. Lots of choices at their gift shop and it's quite pretty in there."
"An easy walk takes you to the bridge for a nice view of the tumbling waterfall. A side route has lots of tree roots and rocks, but gets you to another view of the falls. A tree fell over the river, leaving two big limbs crossing the waterfall, which mars the view a bit. Sunwapta has a bit of a cluttered look, compared to Athabasca Falls with it's big panoramic scene. At the turnoff to Sunwapta, there is a gift shop/restaurant/lodge; be sure to go into the cafe and purchase a pina colada muffin; they are huge, moist, and delicious."
"It's a quick stop on the Parkway, the falls themselves are okay, Athbasca are far more impressive. The viewing point is a short stroll from the car park. If you are short on time, skip this stop"
Do drive the few kms from the hay to see this falls. The walk is a bit tricky if you are not good on your feet.
"Nice little outlet to stop stretch your legs, I enjoy seeing the falls and finding that there were additional paths that we can come back to and try later. Great place."
"If you have never visited a decent waterfall you will enjoy these. However we were exposed to Helmcken, Spahat and Athabsca before this and it was ok. I would recommend folk to visit this and make their own mind up as there is nothing bad or wrong with it."
"nice water falls on the ice fields highway 93, nice for a few pictures, a bit of a walk for elderly or strollers"
"Must be very careful walking down, don't step on rocks as they are slippery. Would be difficult for some seniors to reach.
Beautiful rapids."
"We loved the fact that we didn't have far to walk from the parking lot and you could hear the thundering before you could even see the falls! It was in a beautiful setting, surrounded by trees and mountains. It had many viewpoints to take pictures and was a great stop along the Icefields Parkway."
The most exciting thing about these falls was the commotion we observed along the road leading to them. A dozen or so cars had blocked the road whilst there occupants had spewed out to see a bear that was hanging in the woods near the roadside. The falls themselves are very ordinary
We happened upon this attraction by accident. The views are great and the trail down to the river very pretty.
"The falls are smaller than Athabasca Falls, but are still worth visiting. The walk down to the lower falls is also worth doing and doesn't take more than about an hour or so. The large car park has toilets and it looks like people camp there overnight."
This waterfall is nice and close and easy for all to see. Very powerful water moving through here and great backdrop for photos.
A great place to stop and get out of your car. The falls is not very far from the parking lot and easy to walk to. Beautiful stop.
"A must stop! The whole area is beautiful, but the waterfalls are just amazing! The volume of water flowing over them is truly awe inspiring!"
Two stunning waterfalls. Well worth a visit when staying in Jasper. Would be fantastic frozen in the winter.
Excellent during the off season. Accessibility makes it unpleasant during Tourist Season Flowing water is so soothing and the setting is certainly beautiful. Easy access makes this area sometimes too busy.
"We visited the upper fall on September 14 and it was absolutely beautiful but didn't realize there is a trail to lower fall. After reading that on the forum, we made sure that we visited the lower fall as well on our return to Canmore on September 18. The trail was very quiet on the way down and it was quite easy. It was boring in the beginning but it was rewarding when you finally get there. Don't miss it. We met a couple from UK to tell us to visit Mistaya canyon. It is a great place to stop and eat your picnic lunch while sitting on the rock and admire the raging water. We did just that based their recommendation."
Located along the Icefield Parkway... Not far from the parking lot are the upper falls... Nice walk down to the lower falls.. Washrooms and picnic area ..
"Sunwapta was beautiful....if you want the full effect of this stop, you need to do upper and then lower Sunwapta. The real glory and beauty comes at the lower Sunwapta Falls. Most people stop at the first one and head back to the car and away. It was maybe 1.5 to 2KM distance to the lower and it is worth it. It was a great experience to see all of them. It is less crowded in the lower falls and we were lucky enough to experience it all to ourselves for 5 or 10 minutes before we even saw anyone else. There is some minor elevation on the way back up, but its worth it!"
Nice falls close to road but not as dramatic as Athabasca falls so if short of time see that attraction. We went in early autumn so water flow would have been less than in Spring.
Visit these falls whilst driving the Icefields Parkway. In my opinion they are not as spectacular nor as easy to see as the Athabasca falls. Good parking and short walk to viewing areas. Allow about 20/30mins for visit.
"The Staff are great. The view is amazing. The food was very good .
We had a room with a fire place wood burning Staff will come out and started it for you. Very nice in September when its cooler."
"These falls have a strong water flow, and you can get quite close to the mouth of the falls to really see and hear the force of the water. It is worth following the 1.3km track down to the lower falls as it is a nice stroll through the forest along the way, and not so many people go down to the lower falls, which also is nice."
"The falls at the top are great. However, you should do yourself and budget extra time so you can go to the lower falls. They are so much more peaceful and equally amazing to the upper falls area. Sitting and watching the running water as it roars through each of the canyons hitting the rocks as it turns at right angles is fantastic. It is a great family event and not too bad of a hike. Just watch out for the roots."
Loved these falls too! have your camera ready. Loved the walk to the falls you can hear them! went in the early afternoon.
"The upper falls area easy to get to and quite beautiful. But, it would be a shame to leave there without seeing the lower falls. The trail leads out of the parking lot, and winds down following the rushing current, past several more falls near the bottom of the trail. Take your time coming back, as it is uphill."
This is an easy stop to do if you have the time. We spent about a half hour here taking pictures and taking in the view of the falls and river. A must stop!
Another worth while natural spot to stop Interesting fall formations as it plunges down the river and canyon Go back in the evening for wildlife siting's along the river
"Sunwapta Resort is about an hour toward Banff from Jasper. The upper falls, which you reach first, are gorgeous and powerful. It's definitely worth the non-strenuous walk through the woods to see all three beautiful falls and the canyons. Being from Southern California, I found it hard to imagine just how much water was thundering over the falls every minute. It's gorgeous. I would recommend 1-2 hours. Without young kids (under 6), you could see all three in an hour if you park in the upper lot. But in the main parking lot, there is a big board with biographies of some (local?) Indian chiefs that were really fascinating. I wish I had had the time to read the all or saw a copy of them in the small store (which has clean restrooms) and adjacent restaurant."
"the short hike down to the lower Sunwapta falls in well worth the effort. The walk is through a lovely little forested area and the color of the falls and river are so pretty. When we were there, the falls were really roaring"
"Worth a quick stop as it's an easy walk from the small parking lot and there is a store for washrooms and drinks at the main entrance area. Not as impressive as the Athabasca falls, it's still worth a quick visit for some photos. I wouldn't drive a great distance to see these falls, but it's certainly worth stopping if you're driving through."
"The natural power of these falls are amazing as it is forced through a crack in a cliff wall. There is another section about 1.3 km down a path called the cascades, I'm sad to say that I never had the chance to go and see it. I have read that they are quite nice. Don't just drive by, stop and take a look. You won't be sorry you did."
"Sunwapter Falls is a very pretty waterfall, not quite as impressive as the Athabasca falls. I would recommend stopping here for sure. It is very close to the parking area and you don't have to walk very far."
Very beautiful waterfalls. You should definitely have a look if you are driving by! There was lots of parking and everything is laid out very nice.
Family stopped for a visit at sunwapta to show our costa rican friend all the wonderful sights in Jasper national park. We enjoyed the falls for 30 minutes and then on to the next one. So many sights to see in Jasper National Park and we lucky enough to see a grizzly bear by the highway and also a black bear and cub on the road up to Maligne Lake.
"One of the highlights on the Icefield Parkway and different from the Athabasca falls.
Certainly a stop not to skip."
The falls are beautiful but a bit of a drive from the town of Jasper. Depending on season and time of day it can get quite busy. The falls its self are beautiful and recommended during your visit.
"Lovely location but you need a car to get there. Saw lots of birds, marmot & squirrels. Took a picnic as no local facilities."
"Waterfalls. Trails. MIllions of years of Mother Nature's work is here. Restaurant on site too, if you're hungry and want to eat in a beautiful view."
Again not far from the highway easily accessible gorgeous views hiking picnicking restrooms all right there lots of wildlife to see a must-see
WE were short of time so didn't take the 2k hike to the lower Falls. Theses are a miniature of the Athabasca falls. The nearby Sunwapta Lodge is ice to visit too.
Just behind our hotel. Picnic area and toilets available. It is worth the walk down to the lower falls - about 2km. We had lovely weather !
"Nice falls, easy walk from the Sunwapta restaurant. The parking lot is even closer. Agree that Athabasca is more spectacular but still a nice stop."
"Suwapter falls is about 45 minute drive from Jasper and is easily accessible from the Hwy 93. A short drive to a large car park and a 5 minute easy walk on good paths and the Sunwpter falls are on show. There are 2 tiers to view the falls, the top tier has a better view.Worth a stop and view."
"Nice falls, close to Hwy 93, easy hike around and also nice hike to lower falls, that we were recommended to take from stuff at Sunwapta Falls Rocky Mountain Lodge."
"Spectacular falls, not as crowded as some as a bit more remote. Lovely walk to Big Bend through forest where can see wild life. Path easy to follow."
"Not as dramatic as Athabasca but also easy to access so why not
and there is a cafe nearby where we grabbed good sandwiches for later consumption down the road"
