"I rented a kayak for an hour at a very reasonable rate and absolutely loved the experience. It doesn’t get much better than paddling around a crystal clear mountain lake, surrounded by majestic mountains. It was so quiet and serene. I forgot to turn off my cell phone and got a call from co-workers. Wow, were they jealous when I texted them a picture from the middle of the lake. Don’t miss this experience if you go to Jasper!"
We went for a drive to PATRICIA LAKE but first went to PYRAMID LAKE. WOW. What a scenic area. Had alot of fun hiking around the lake and really enjoyed the lake and mountains. Lake is more beautiful and cleaner and clearer than lake louise. On our way back to JASPER we stopped at PATRICIA LAKE but not as nice as PYRAMID LAKE.
Awesome to see the frozen lakes for the first time. The mountains were spectacular. It looked like a magical place as we walked around.
"Nice scenic ride to Pyramid and Patricia lakes. Everything is included -lake, mountains, big sky, woods, frost, snow, nature, etc. Everyone that visits Jasper should make this short scenic drive just for the view. There's a restaurant and lodge too."
"The lakes are just so peaceful. You can walk around pyramid if you choose. If not, there are plenty of other trails around the area. There are also places to eat or stay nearby."
Rooms are very nice and they all have a great view and a fireplace. Staff are very good however there website needs to inform people that during this time of year their dining room is only open on Thursday thru Sunday and only open for breakfast on weekends.
"Last time visited my 1st time went to Patricia Lake, this time went to Pyramid Lake in hopes of seeing The Northern Lights. Unfortunately didn't. Locals were talking of what an amazing sight they were just the night before we had arrived bummer lol The view of the stars was amazing anyway. Layed down on a sleeping back and just stared straight up into the sky. Was quite chilly so arrived about 12:30 am and called it quits 2 am. Teeth chattered too much. What an amazing view would be over the lake if they had appeared for us."
A short drive from Jasper takes you to Pyramid Lake. We parked up and had a walk across the bridge there to a small island. A peaceful place to take in nature on one of the many seats and look at the snow capped mountains.
"This 5 to 10 minute trip is well worth the short drive from Jasper the view at Pyramid Lake is beautiful in all seasons, you only need a couple of hours to enjoy the area and stops at both lakes. This is a DON'T miss little trip when you visit Jasper. Photos are great and you can spend a few hours or the entire day in the area."
It is only a short drive from the centre of Jasper and the views make it really worth it. Definitely put it on your to do list.
"All this area is amazing, the lakes are beautiful and the water is so clear. Beautiful to go to during the day and even better at night for some star gazing so make sure you visit them during the day and night."
Not so busy lakes which are lovely and the views are amazing. Take a walk and enjoy the rockies without the crowds.
"Very attractive lake. Autumn is the best time for taking photos Unfortunately again it is overrun by tourists, even though it is not on the main coach tourist route."
Pyramid Lake is a must stop visit when you are in Jasper. It has an amazing view. We walk through a bridge to go to a small island in the middle of the lake.
Stopped at Jasper and at the info centre they told us to see it..so... We did and we r so happy we did cos is breath taking easy to get to and somromantic to walk around. You can even stop for a pick Nick or go to the near by restaurant
We did a quick loop around the island picnic area. Great views all the way around. Busy but not too bad.
Great picture opportunity and there also a few trails to explore. Opportunity for wildlife photos for the photographer.
"If you are in Jasper National Park, don't miss this stop. Especially Pyramid Lake! It is so beautiful as the mountain reflects off the lake. A striking contrast to the beauty is evidence of the Pine Beetle infestation! So sad to see."
We took the Rocky Mountaineer Gold Circle trip and were fortunate to stop at Pyramid lake where we got beautiful mountain shots with reflection unto the surface of the lake. Truly amazing
"I stayed at the Mountain Park Lodges on the edge of Pyramid Lake so was able to see the lake at different times of the day. The 1st evening elk came down to the water and provided the stock standard Canada photo opportunity, it was great. The next morning the sunrise on the lake and the mountains behind was brilliant. Even if not staying at the lake, go and visit it."
"I was lucky to get amazing sunset pictures and rainbow pictures here. The Lake is beautiful, calm and serene and is a wonderful place to relax and enjoy the sunset. One of my favourite spots in Jasper and it proved to be the perfect location to complete my trip in Jasper."
"We were staying at the Patricia Lake resort, so had many opportunities to hike by or near both lakes. We also enjoyed sitting by Patricia Lake morning and evening taking in the stillness and listening to the calls of elk and loons. We also hiked up the Pyramid overlook Trail for a better view of both lakes. One of our favourite places in the world."
We stayed at the Pyramid Lake Resort for a couple of nights. We were able to enjoy perfect weather so the sunrise over the snow topped mountains reflecting in the mirror-smooth lake was dramatic. Walks around the lake takes about an hour on well marked trails. An easy drive of about 5 km from Jasper meant that we also saw Elk grazing beside the road.
"There are quite a couple of peoplearound here. The many hikes you can take are moderatley easy, so dont expect too much. Nice to visit and enjoy the stunning views"
"We saved Pyramid Lake for sunset, and the views were spectacular of the sun setting, with it orange-red light cast upon the nearby mountains. Among the most amazing vistas visible in Canada, and one of many available in Jasper alone. The only drawback is taht it is a bit busier than other sites because of its proximity to town."
"Being from the east coast and having not appreciated the Rockies due to travel distance, I can truly say we have missed so much of our beautiful country. It was very busy when we went however just watching the people and looking at e landscape was worth the drive . Also to look at some of our history and our failures during the war at Patricia Lake was an eye opener as well."
"My fiancé and I enjoyed visiting these lakes because they were not as crowded as the other tourist attractions. However, if you want to canoe, be prepared to spend $45 an hour. I wish they didn't rip off the tourists so much."
"as other reviewers mentionned this is a great place for quintessential Rockies pictures, especially at first light on a sunny, non windy day. Pyramid mountain is also gorgeous from town, from south 93 bridge over the Athabasca. from Pyramid Island, Mount Edith Cavelle can be stunning. Besides all that, there's history here, Canadian ingenuity history from WWII where Project Habakkuk took place. But you'll have to google it, or better yet, come see it for yourself. Diving, canoeing, swimming if you are brave or dare, etc. However, don't expect any motors on your watercraft except your own muscle power. Now, to get here, find Pyramid street, follow the narrow, winding road, enjoy the view. Patricia lake is first, great place to party, eat and be responsibly merry. continue to Pyramid lake, where parking is tight. a bit more parking a few feet beyond the initial parking though. the sites are accessible to mobility challenged guests. there are outdoor toilets... nough said. it's a beautiful spot that never fails to take my breath away. I walk around, admire the view, the flora and fauna, and the only thing I recommend taking from there are pictures and memories, please."
My fiance and are are sold! Next year we will be getting married on Pyramid Island. The views are classic Rockies. A beautiful lake surrounded by majestic mountains. What more could you ask for?
They are both calm and quiet lakes with emerald green color. It's beautiful and breath taking. Great for photos and pyramid has a great little spot for a wedding ceremony when you cross the wooden bridge to the other side.
"These lakes offer wonderful views, but go early in the day before the wind picks up and ruins the mirror images. If you have a panorama function on your camera, be sure to take in the enite scene."
"What a place. I probably drove up here 4-5 times while in Jasper National Park and each time was unique from the next due to the conditions, clouds and light. The light and conditions here can be suitable for sunrises, sunsets and stargazing. Pyramid Island and mountain are absolutely beautiful."
We drove to the two lakes and took some pictures. The lakes were ok but not too impressive since there were so many lakes of all sizes in the region. I guess it'd be a good experience in summer there to swim or paddle a canoe.
We arrived around 9 in the morning to the first parking lot (where the trails start) and decided not to walk the trails because of time constraints. It looks like there is a lot of variety in the trails and it's worth looking up the specifics on the jasper trails website.We snapped some pictures and continued on to the second parking lot which was close to the bridge that takes you to the island. Another amazing spot to take in the scenery and take some pictures. We chose this spot after realizing we didn't have time to go to Maligne Lake and was not disappointed.
"Patricia Lake - We initially stopped at this lake thinking it might be Pyramid Lake, which it wasn’t. But whilst there we did have a very enjoyable short walk through the woods at the end of the lake adjacent to the car park.Pyramid Lake - This lake and island are located a few kilometres further along the same road as Patricia Lake and both the lake and island are well worth seeing, you walk along a short boardwalk to get onto the island which is fairly small but offers lovely views across the lake to the mountains and woodland on the other side.There is no difficulty walking and no steep climbs."
"we only visited Pyramid lake and hiked the loop trail.to walk to the island in Pyramid lake was nice, they have picnic tables, so you can rest and relax with the view. to see the mirrors all around was amazing and best if you catch a canoe in the water for pictures.the we hiked the loop trail which was good hike too."
"On a clear, calm day these lakes are great mirrors for the fabulous surrounding scenery. They are not far from Jasper. We were fortunate to see a lot of elk from a male, to females, and many yearlings along the drive. Water is very clear!"
"These two lakes were a peaceful escape from the busy-ness of every other tourist attraction we had been to so far! The lakes are beautiful colours, with majestic mountains behind. Don't underestimate the places that are a little off the beaten path."
On a calm day these lakes are giant mirrors that make a beautiful scene and great photo's . Only 5 Km's from Jasper
"We hiked from Jasper to both these lakes and thoroughly enjoyed the experience. We were lucky that it had snowed unexpectedly the previous day, so walking on the trail through the forest was like walking through a winter wonderland.Both lakes are so picturesque and just a delight to see in any conditions. When we first arrived it was cloudy, but still beautiful, so we drove back the next day and were rewarded with sunshine and different views altogether."
"Beautiful, beautiful, beautiful...specially Pyramid Lake. The water is crystal clear and reflects the mountains beautifully. You should cross the bridge over the lake and walk to another side of the lake for more beautiful scenes."
"This was beautiful , the water is so pure and the views are so amazing . No amount of pictures do this justice , you really have to come out and see it for yourself ."
"Walked from the end of the road. Car park 7 , great views of the lakes if you cant walk . We did the foot path 2 and 2a. To the top. Took about 1hour to top. Not too bad. Had walking shoes on and needed a good grip in places. We were on our way back and came across 2young Male Elk rather not as they were chasing each other. jThen 50 yards later 2 female s who ignored us and kept eating grass. Ahead on path a large male. We were very wary. But he kept out of our way. Take great care as they are big. We were advised they were there but it's a shock when they are so close to the path!"
"After visiting some of the higher profile lakes in the area, I was pleasantly surprised.They do not provide for the best photo ops (less reflections due to lower mountains), but even so - very nice.Liked the island on Pyramid lake - nice panoramic photos.After leaving Patricia lake on the way to Pyramid lake, we saw an Elk crossing the road just ahead of us.Recommended."
"Beware when hiking to take the right trail up the hill so you get good views of the Lake and Mountains.
Visitors center recommended a hike that headed back towards Jasper- only a walk through the forest, with no views of the lake."
We enjoyed both of these lakes. Walking next to each of them was a beautiful experience - very peaceful and serene. There is a lodge or inn at Pyramid Lake if you need to eat - take a picnic lunch out to the island at Pyramid. Patricia Lake is adjacent to the towering Pyramid Mountain and worth an early morning visit to catch the reflection.
"A quiet place, beautiful lake. The island is tired from so many foot falls after the summer, but the views were nice and im not sorry we went. You only need an hour."
"Pyramid lake was absolutely gorgeous. Walking out onto the little island and enjoying the gorgeous view from there was perfect. The walk is fairly easy and super pretty. Boating on pyramid lake is also not as expensive as in the rest of the park. Pyramid mountain has stunning colours when the light hits it (red, orange, and slightly pink). Patricia lake has an amazing colour when it's sunny out."
"The whole area that encompasses Pyramid Lake, Pyramid Island, and Patricia Lake is just beautiful. We lucked out with a crystal clear day (we had numerous smoky days from the wildfires) and we were able to get the full effect of the stillness of the lakes and the reflections of the surrounding mountains. The walkway around Pyramid Island is great, and gives you the perfect vantage point to see Pyramid Mountain. Take some time to explore the area, the resort is a perfect place to stop and grab a bite while you're out that way."
It was not that hard to get to pyramid and patricia lake. It was very close to the town of Jasper. We went in the morning and we were lucky to have clear skies. IT WAS ABSOLUTELY BEAUTIFUL!
Very easy and beautiful walk to a small island in the middle of Pyramid Lake. Benches are in key locations so you can sit down and take in the beauty. Dogs allowed.
"These two lakes are adjacent to each other and they're very close to Jasper village. This was our first of many real stops in the park. Overall, the lakes are pretty, but probably quick stops. We drove around and stopped at a few of the pull-over areas around each lake. Pyramid Lake has a small island, which you can walk onto by crossing a small bridge. There are some nice photo opps."
Both Pyramid and Patricia lakes are gorgeous. I found better pictures showing the colors of the lake at Patricia. Going there in the morning yields the best pictures. While we were at Pyramid lake we saw elk in the water. There were about 15 of them one huge buck several females and the young all in the water. They certainly created a stir amongst the people there. Everyone was taking pictures it was great to be amongst them in such a natural setting.
Nice small lake in jasper famous for Project Habbakuk during the world war 2 . relax environment closer to Jasper town
We drove to Patricia Lakes and there was not much to do and see. We went on to Pyramid Lakes and there is an island which you can walk thru the wooden bridge. It was nice to sit and enjoy the sunset.
"In the cool summer evenings, guest will sit quietly on the dock at Patricia lake with a glass of wine and just stare out into heavenly paradise. A loon calls in the distance, the mountains cut like shadows against the reddening sky, the water, an azure blue, turns violet under the slowly diminishing sun. The watchers speak in hushed tones, revering in the magnificence of the mountains. A wolf howls a lonely cry. Water gently ripples against the swaying dock, on which children lay dipping their little fingers, to catch elusive shimmering minnows. Their laughter trailing across the quiet lake. Lovers sit on bright red deck chairs, holding hands and whispering to each other, staring out at the growing moon rising like a magnificent dove out of the red fire. A returning canoe cuts a shadow puppet from the outlines of the mountains, the oar dips and rises, water sliding off with a rhythmic splash. I stand on the dock, thinking of the poems that could possibly describe the experience and Omar Khayyám's words come to mind: “Here with a Loaf of Bread beneath the Bough,A Flask of Wine, a Book of Verse - and ThouBeside me singing in the Wilderness -And Wilderness is Paradise enow.”Patricia lake has one of the most glorious views of the mountains overlooking a lake. It is one of the most peaceful and picturesque places that will stay with you long after your visit. Come here to fill your soul with the quiet and joy it longs for."
"We visited Pyramid and Patricia Lakes while in Jasper. Though we were not overwhelmed by Patricia Lake. It was nice but didn't stand out as spectacular in my opinion.Just a short distance away was Pyramid Lake. We first stopped by the beach area and was small but adequate. A short drive away, we came across Pyramid Lake Island which we went and explored. This small island was beautiful and offered some very nice vantage points for pictures. The day we were there the views were obscured by the recent BC fires, but you could still enjoy the beauty.The island caters to weddings and other events for its spectacular views. This is a must see when you are in the area.We also got to experience the Pyramid Lake Resort boat rentals. Took a row boat out on the lake for about 30 minutes. Was a great experience."
We had a short stop over at both Patricia and Pyramid lakes. Both stunning. We saw a family of elks swimming in Pyramid Lake ... an absolute highlight!
We did not have a car so hiked from the centre of Jasper and it's an easy 1 hour hike through woodlands to two beautiful lakes. Lots of people seemed to drive and then hike but a car is not needed of happy to walk the extra km's. We are not the fittest but managed this without problem. The hike starts a few streets back from the main streets in Jasper and its upwards from there for a bit.
A friend and I drove to Pyramid Lake to photograph the lake and surrounding mountains. We were lucky - the sky was clear except for a few clouds that helped to emphasize the blue. We found many subjects worth photographing. We also were able to make a pleasant walk around most of the lake.
"Patricia and Pyramid lakes are very close to downtown Jasper. If you want to do cost effective canoeing or row boating, this is the place to do it. Any popular tourist spot costs quite a bit for an hour. Here the prices are half that of others. The hikes are good, but the one that is the most challenging is the best one that provides a panoramic view. If you intend to do it, it would require 4-8 hours. There are much better places to hike in Jasper. Mount Edith Cavall bring one of the best."
Loved it. Very pretty. Tip - don't canoe in the late afternoon. It is harder to canoe. We had to hike against current to return to our hotel. It was hard!
We stayed in a cottage at the Patricia Lakes Bungalows and had distinct lake access to Patricia Lake as well as very reasonable kayak and canoe rentals - Wow! We completed a few hikes at and around Pyramid Lake. Hike or Walk out to Pyramid Island via the foot bridge on the east end of the lake.
"Good choice of boat rentals suitable for all the family at pyramid lake resort. Canoes, kayaks single and double, motor cruisers and pedaloes."
Go in the morning to avoid the crowds. It's beautiful with the reflection of the Pyramid Mountains in the lake.
Relaxing and peaceful location. Interesting information displays e.g the WW2 story of ICE ships! We walked between the two lakes enjoying the peacefulness that exists so close to the frenetic town of Jasper.
Came here with my cousin and her children and they loved it. Breath taking scenery & amazingly clear waters!
"We arrived early and it was serene and beautiful. The
Lake was like a mirror. Pyramid was the more scenic."
They have a beach area and a rental where you can rent Kayaks or paddle boards. Like all of the parks in Canada there are picnic tables and bathroom facilities.
"Both of these lakes in the Jasper area are lovely: mountains, trees, lakes - what more could you want for beautiful scenery! There are trails in the area, and we saw several elk."
"Beautiful trails for hiking. You can rent bikes,canoes,kayaks or electric motor boats. Lots to do. Witnessed a wedding there on Pyramid island, very pretty."
"I just really viewed Pyramid like from the road, but as there is no review of Pyramid Mountain I thought I would combine the 2. Pyramid Lake is just like a post card. I parked my vehicle at the Pyramid mountain fire road, packed my backpack, and headed up the road on my Kona hard trail bike. The 8km bike ride was pretty brutal for flat lander! Keep going all the way to the base of the mountain with your bike....as I did not. I hiked the rest. The hike up the mountain was awesome and the views were spectacular! It's a must for anyone in the area. Caution....fitness is a must. It's not for the weak of heart! It was nice to soak my sore feet in Pyramid Lake after a long day of riding and hiking."
"Wish we could have seen more but very hazy and smoky from the wild fire but did not interfer with the enjoyment of the visit. Nice well marked hikes, plentiful maps. Boats, canoes etc to hire. Will certainly go back,"
WTF Hostel has a canoe for guests to use on Patricia Lake. It was a nice morning trip up to Patricia Lake and we enjoyed the crystal clear water while out in the canoe. Saw an elk or caribou getting a drink as we put the canoe in the water but no other wildlife.
"There is a whole network of trails in the area around Pyramid Lake. Parking is limited, so perhaps arrive earlier in the day. The walk out to the small island is a must for views of Pyramid Mtn. Since it is so close to town ( 10 min drive) this can be a spur of the moment place to go"
"We planned to arrive to Patricia Lake in the evening. We were lucky to have a clear day with the setting sun ray shining to the mountain. ""Pyramid"" it is!"
"We got an early start to ensure a park for our RV. The weather wasn't great but we still had an enjoyable 2 hour hike. We did part of 2I and 2H and came back on 2B. The views were great. After lunch we did another 2 hour hike 2, then 2G, then 2B and back. It was very steep and hilly on the return section but offered great views out over Jasper."
We drove up and through the Pyramid and Patricia Lakes while in Jasper. It was beautiful to drive and easy to access. The Pyramid Lake was stunning with a beach and docks with benches to enjoy the core of the mountains and lake. Loved it!!!!
Only 20 minutes from the town this area is pretty. You can choose to walk over the bridge to the island and beach and enjoy the view.
You can hire a boat to go on Pyramid Lake; it's pretty and the small beach areas around the lake are nice for a picnic.
"Great place to take photos in early morning or late afternoon, especially when there is no wind, the lake is like a mirror! Great view for Pyramid mountain from here. Visited Aug 10 and 11 2017. At 5pm, it's still too early for sunset, but the parking by Pyramid Island was not busy at that time. Easy stroll on the island. My kids age 2 and 4 enjoyed it. The following morning we got to Patricia Lake and Pyramid Lake at 9am. The light was great for photography! We rent canoe and row-boats 10-11am. It was not too hot. A great place to go to for family fun. Although the views of these two lakes are not as amazing as Moraine Lake or Emerald Lake, they are beautiful and pleasant in their own ways!"
This was fun.From the parking lot we walked beyond the closed gate and up to trail 2i.Followed the to 2h and to bench edge on Pyramid mountain. Followed to the next sign and took 2b to the right towards the parking lot.Elevation was hard but the hike was worth it for the views at the top were outstanding.Total time 2 hours 30
Nice and fairly quiet lakes near jasper. Some nice views and lots of dragonflies in summer! Mind the wasps nests in the lake shore - I got stung!
"It rained the morning of this hike but we decided to go for the hike anyways. My husband, myself and our dog saw beautiful views, saw Caribou or Elk, a whole family just off of the hiking trail we were on - it was beautiful and we saw more Caribou or Elk again after our hike down by the water. This hike was so beautiful!"
We visited both lakes today. There is a nice short hike on Pyramid Island that you can take. Lots of view spots for photos.
Great place to spend a few hours. Water was clean and refreshing. Walk to the island view point was nice.
"Pyramid mountain is a beautiful mountain that can be seen from the town site of Jasper. Although, if you venture the 6 km up Pyramid Lake road it gives an incredible and closer view of Pyramid mountain and Pyramid Lake. Blue Rodeo has even written a sound about Pyramid Lake! You can rent canoes, and row boats and an electric cruiser from the boat house on Pyramid Lake. Continue past Pyramid Lake Resort to the dead end where you'll find a small parking lot for Pyramid Island. There are commonly wedding ceremonies happening on the island and lots of other beautiful points to explore. I would recommend heading up to Patricia Lake first and then continuing to Pyramid Lake Resort to enjoy the Pines breakfast and views and then onto Pyramid Island. This way you avoid the crowds and make a morning out of the whole experience as it's quite beautiful when the lake is quiet in the morning."
It was a surprise that on our way to pyramid lake we found Patricia lake !! It much peaceful And the water is super clean !! Love the bungalow there !!! Definitely a good vacation house next time !
Take the time to visit Pyramid Lake. It is beautiful. Get there early as the parking lot fills up by 8:00 am in the peak season and the rangers close the road.
"The lake was nice and had people (kids) swimming in it. There are a few nice areas to pull over and look. We went to the landing area and walked out to the island. It is in need of some further repairs but there are areas to sit and look out. Views were nice. It was a nice spot to relax and have a late afternoon snack while we waited for our room in Jasper to be available. It is a very short drive. Nice parking area, mostly flat and easy walk."
"We went here after stopping by Patricia Lake first. We had read the reviews that younger children aren't allowed on the boats there, but figured we'd stop by first since it was on the way. The rental office was closed, despite it being during their...More"
Stunning views and wildlife too in the evenings. We saw a family of Caribou ion the evening. We got some nice pics until inconsiderate Asian tourists got too close and scared them off
We again visited Pyramid Lake and Patricia Lake in search of moose and other wildlife in the evening. We saw moose skat but no moose. (The last trip we did see a moose at Patricia Lake.). Very pretty scenery and a nice way to spend an enjoyable evening.
"Just five minutes out of Jasper to the north east is beautiful Pyramid Lake which has stunning vistas and lots of boating options. You can rent pedal boats, canoes and kayaks for a leisure time out on the water or launch your own. Best part is parking at the end of the road near Pyramid Island and taking the wheel chair accessible path through the woods, across the bridge to the island. Lots of benches set in the pines give east, north and west views. An area with benches and prepared gravel serves as a wedding setting and faces the west across the water towards Mt Whistler and Mt Edith Cavell - a totally enchanting setting!"
"If you will be in Jasper more than a day, think about these lakes for your home base. You can spend your time on the scenic waters here and walk/run/bike the many trails in addition to all the other things you can do in Jasper."
We found a small herd of elk cooling off in the lake. Amazing. Didn't go swimming but really enjoyed the quiet natural setting.
"During May, Jasper is not overcrowded with tourists, which makes for a nice trip. And especially the lakes are amazing when it's just you and this overpowering landscape. Patricia lake shows the true Canadian lake you have seen on photos, with kayaks on the sand, a wooden bench positioned to look over the blue lake with snow-topped mountains against the bright blue sky behind it. On Pyramid lake we went canoeing, being the only canoe on the lake at the time, it was the most impressive experience. Never have I felt so little on this big lake with views of robust mountains. If you look closely at land, you can see wildlife walking past, looking for food. Pyramid lake also has a little sanctuary island which is definitely worth a trip, it's just a 20min stroll on the island with stunning views and information about the lake and mountains. Absolutely amazing experience and I recommend it to everyone."
"We drove 5 km north of Jasper to these 2 lovely lakes. Here you will not find many tourists. It is a place for the local people. There was a nice Café at the Pyramid Lake, but closed for a private event. We just walked around and enjoyed the good and quiet atmosphere. You can rent canoes,too."
"These lakes are a short drive from the Jasper townsite and offer some unique and interesting views. There is Pyramid Island which you can stroll around (we unfortunately did not have the opportunity to) with a connecting bridge to the mainland. When the winds are calm, the water is perfect and you can get that mirror-like reflection from the water. While not the most breathtaking spot we visited (mind you, lots of Jasper area is breathtaking!), we still felt it was worth a visit and we would definitely spend more time there in the future.Please kindly indicate if you found this review to be helpful as it will allow me to better focus my future efforts! Much appreciated - hope you have a great time and safe travels!"
"If you're staying in Jasper, and you want to start your day off well (before the crowds arrive),, try the Pyramid and Patricia Lakes. Tranquil (at least early in the day), with mirror like water. Watch out for mosquitos in the summer - cover yourself with repellant."
We drove out to Pyramid lake for a picnic. One of the few places we found for the kids to play in the sand. Wonderfull cement picnic tables and an awesome view .
We kayaked on both Pyramid and Patricia Lakes. We visit the lakes each year and am still in awe of the serenity when on the lakes. They are heaven on earth.
"If you go to pyramid lake an hour before sunset you can get amazing views of pyramid mountain with a pink raise behind it from pyramid island. Definitely recommend it as there was hardly anyone else there! We also saw elk on the inside of a corner of the road to the lake, make sure to drive slowly round the corners and warn incoming traffic as one of the elk nearly got hit by an oncoming car going too fast. Other than that; a nice evening location and photo spot."
"We first did the Pyramid Lake overlook loop hike (around 6 km) which offered some very nice views, but spent a lot of time in the forest. Then we went and cooled off in Pyramid Lake, rented a double kayak from the rental hut at the Pyramid Lake Lodge, and paddled our way around the lake exploring the shoreline, Pyramid Island (small island accessible on foot via a foot bridge from a small parking area), admiring the imposing Pyramid Mountain, watching the loons and the fish jumping. Very scenic and calming kayak for both of us. Nice little kayak, easy to maneuver, but the paddles weighed more than what we are used to - our paddles at home are much lighter. It was a great way to relax after the previous hike in the heat!"
"Lovely spot to rent a boat and enjoy this lovely lake. Small parking lot, get there early.It doesn't seem as busy as other attraction."
These are about 10 mins from Jasper. We drove up there and they are stunning. We hired a kayak and went out on the lake which was great fun. Well worth a visit.
There is some very stark scenery around especially Pyramid Lake. On the far side there is the evidence of the 2015 forest fire. The black trees against the white mountains really make some dramatic photos. Around Patricia Lake it looks like Autumn as the trees we were told are being attacked by some sort of parrisite which is turning the leaves brown and I guess ultimately killing the trees. Let's hope they can get on top of this somehow.
A beautiful lake for a canoe paddle (best rental prices in the area!) and a charming hotel and dining room. Great value in the area.
This was a great short trip from Jasper. Very easy to get to and conveniently many little out houses along the way :)
"Quick stop close to the the Jasper village. Definitely worth to go there, the lakes were beautiful in May. We met elk on the way there."
Great Lakes that are picturesque. Had fun with a rowing boat on Pyramid Lake. Nice to walk to the island on Pyramid Lake too. If you're short of time in Jasper though go to Maligne Lake and take the cruise to Spirit Island- so stunning.
It's a quick drive from the town. Its possible to kayak and there are lots of pick nick sites around the lakes. Child friendly great to let the kiddos burn energy.
Patricia & Pyramid Lakes effectively abut each other. It is a short drive from town and the scenery is spectacular. For the more energetic take trail 15 and hike up to the lakes
Beautiful lakes with good walks alongside. Not too far out of Jasper so easy to visit. Plenty of car parking and good walking conditions. Stunning views over the lakes to the mountains. Plenty of picnic spots.
"We had a spare afternoon, so we decided to go for a drive to Patricia and Pyramid Lake. Patricia Lake is across the road from a resort and restaurant. It also has canoes/kayaks available for hire. We enjoyed the sun and amazing landscape for hours. We walked around Pyramid Lake a fair bit. There is a bridge you can cross and go out onto a small little island that has plenty of seats all around the water's edge to enjoy the view and the massive mountains right in front of you. I think one of the mountains is called Pyramid mountain, and it has the most beautiful orange and pinky colors through the rocks. Don't skip checking these lakes out, it is lovely."
"We stopped to visit Pyramid Lake and saw numerous people swimming and playing in the water. How could this be in Canada where the glacial lakes are so cold?? But, this lake has warmer water is a very pleasant family oriented area. You can rent paddle boats nearby too or paddle from Patricia Lake to Pyramid Island. Pyramid Island is very pretty and there are places for picnics. The kids loved the water."
"This review covers Overlook Loop and Pyramid Trail. We parked the car at P4, crossed the street to 2b, the trail was a bit muddy in certain spots but fairly easy for about a kilometer then we started gaining elevation. Once on top you can see a few lakes, (not sure which ones). Pictures cannot capture the true colors of the water in those lakes, just wow. At about 2.5 kilometers into the hike, we sat on a nice big rock, ate our lunch and enjoyed the view of the valleys below. The trail then split to 2j, we took 2j to get a better view of the valley and lakes, 2j then joins 2b again after about 1 kilometer. At about 0.5 kilometers back on 2b it splits with 2h, we took 2h. This trail was mostly downhill, with a few uphills, through various types of trees, very quiet and peaceful, only saw 1 other soul on it. After ~1.5 kilometers on 2h we left 2h and followed 2i. There's a small foot bridge to cross on this trail, didn't stop too long, lots of mosquitos in that area. Approximately 1 kilometer into 2i it joins up with a road, which has markers for trail 16, we took it down to Pyramid Lake, fairly easy just a dirt road. Once at pyramid lake we walk over to the island and sat for 45 minutes to rest and take in the view of the mountains. There's a diagram on the bridge of what each mountain is named. The walk back was easy mostly downhill and again a little muddy. Roundtrip was about 4 hrs, including the various breaks we took for lunch and snacks. Highly recommend taking Overlook Loop, the views are stunning. Word of caution: There are horses on this trail, we got yelled at for unintentionally spooking the horses when we joined up with a horse trail, tread lightly."
"looking for path number 6 took us about half an hour, but once on it, we saw a beautiful elk munching his morning branches, and got some stunning views of Patricia lake just as still as glass."
"Scenery here is brilliant and it is obviously a magnet for boat owners to launch onto the lake. We hired a pedalo for an hour and spent the time in the tranquility of the middle of Pyramid Lake, just soaking up the stillness and the views. Only fault with this location is limited parking (mainly on roadside) and hotel/restaurant opposite boat hire jetty seems to shun visitors except for residents to its car park and facilities. A shame as it could make a fortune out of tourists eating/drinking, as it would have the monopoly of the place."
Rented a canoe for an hour and paddled around the entire lake. Weather was great and the lake was fantastic. The mountain views are stunning.
"The island at pyramid lake was picturesque. The sun was shinning and the breeze of the lake was cooling. An amazing day, loved it."
Lovely lake scenery with access to a small islands. Appears you can have various activities on the island and do canoeing and kayaking in the lake. Just a very peaceful and scenic place.
We had just finished a hike and wanted to go somewhere to have our lunch by a lake. We looked on our map and saw that Pyramid Lake had picnic areas. So we drove there. Pyramid lake and Patricia lake are next to each other. We drove to the day use area and went to the main beach. There were a few people there but not over crowded. We have a portable picnic table so set it up on the beach in the shade. It was lovely. Highly recommend going there. The beach is shallow and people were in it. But it is something you can do with the whole family.
"If the sun is about to set and you're driving past here, or staying close, definitely come here! It has a picturesque sunset behind the mountain, with the beautiful lake in view. Very nice area. It didn't seem as crowded as the other lakes, because there are a lot more viewpoints, so everyone is spread out!"
"We went kayaking on Pyramid lake because we were told it had an island that was ideal for a picnic lunch. We went into the day use area and launched our kayaks at the public boat launch past beach 3 but it would be better to launch kayaks from the sandy beach furthest out at the end of the road. That beach has easy access to the water, a sandy beach for lounging or swimming, picnic tables and close by parking. From the boat launch we paddled to the island for lunch. It's then that we discovered that there is a walking bridge to the island so it is a pretty busy spot and much busier than we would have preferred. We kayaked clockwise around the island from the bridge and were lucky enough to find an unoccupied picnic table on the far side of the island. It was a sheltered and less busy site for lunch but it did not have a great mountain view. After lunch we kayaked around the lakeshore looking for moose but to no avail. The wind picked up on our way back to the boat launch and was coming straight at us so it was a wet, white cap wave, paddle back to shore. Always remember that in the mountains the weather can change in a split second so you need to be prepared."
Beaches to spend some time in beautiful views. Water is on the cool side because they are deep. Can be crowded so go early. Lots of wildlife to be on the look out for - elk and bear.
"This place is breathtaking. Looking at the mountains from here, no picture or painting can do it justice. This would be a wonderful place to take some quiet time and have a picnic here. We saw numerous table to sit at and eat. It is so peaceful."
These lakes are a thing of beauty and worth the trip to see them. Spectacular views and nature at it's best.
"On the way to the lake we saw male elk also . These are also beautiful lakes, if you have extra time then you may like to visit these. Nearby there is Pyramid island , you may visit and spend some time as it is not crowded as other places."
"I've been visiting this spot literally since I was about 2 weeks old. This place brings me peace. As with most of Canada, the land is sacred to Indigenous Peoples and there is a burial ground at the tip of the tiny Peninsula separating the two parts of pyramid lake."
Patricia lake is perfect place for couple and family .Approximately 15 to 30 mins from downtown of jasper and very clean property .Great view and perfect to relax
this is just scenery so if you like trees and mountains this is for you and if you are very lucky you see wildlife in its natural habitat!
"This area is a short drive from Jasper and a must-see. The blue water of the clear lake, families canoeing for the dirat time ever and the laughter of children in the paddle boats fill the clean mountain air.Take a walk up the road to the island and experience the view. Meet some new people, share the warmth and friendliness that is exposed while taking in the amazing scenery. It makes you geel so lucky to be alive!"
"Go there in the morning for great views/photos of Pyramid Mountain. Go there in the evening for great views/photos of Mount Colin and Malign Range. The crown jewel is the Pyramid Island. It is just a great place for picnic, sightseeing, meditation etc etc. Water there is not as cold comparing to some other lakes. Saw quite some people peddle and swim."
We were told this was a great place to see wildlife. Someone had recently seen a moose and we were hoping to see one but didn't. Both are pretty lakes.
Nice spot to relax.... would be nice if there were a couple of small docks off of Pyramid Island to sit out on.....
"I'm running out of superlatives to say about Canada, it's beauty at every turn just amazes us all. This place was our first real introduction to the insect population, mosquitos but we were warned that these months are the high bite season for the over 1,000 different varieties that inhabit this beautiful country."
"Stayed at Patricia Lake Bungalows which we enjoyed. Spent 45 minutes on the dock the morning that we left, enjoying the lake. Later in the day went to Pyramid Island park. Different vistas as you walk around. Highly recommend."
"we enjoyed a picnic along the ""beach"" area. lots of tables available, sandy beach area, and boats for rent as well."
These lakes are very close to each other and are within 10-12 mins drive from Jasper town centre. Good place for a quick visit. Not to be missed if staying in Jasper town. There is also the Pyramid Island where one can walk around very close to these lakes
"These two lakes are great to visit. The day we visited there was a cloudy day, then the clouds were out and we really enjoyed a gorgeous views. Please don't miss that......"
"Both lakes are close by. Love,y view. Not too busy. Would recommend d for a short walk and visit. Not too far off the beaten path,"
We stopped here for a few pictures whilst on a wildlife tour. Beautiful and not at all crowded. I do feel there are nicer lakes in the area but these come a very close second and the reflections of the mountains on the water are stunning.
"A must to visit for colour and beauty. The peace and quiet first thing in the morning was wonderful, away from the bus tours."
We took a picnic lunch up to Puramid Lake and picniced on the shore...such a peaceful beautiful spot. I could have soent my whole vacation right there ??
"Have been coming to pyramid lake for many , many years and have seen the progress of this resort .I always stay at the lake view rooms .. these rooms have a balcony , with partial views of the lake.As I do have a dog, I will continue to come here as pets are very welcomed here. Try the restaurant as well. You will experience fresh sea foods as well as buffalo! .. Enjoy..."
"We are in Jasper for a couple of nights on an organised Saga holiday from UK through to Calgary, Banff, Jasper, Rocky Mountaineer and cruise to Alaska. We called here on our way to Jasper. This, for me, was one of the most memorable places we visited on oyur holiday. I think we were some of the first visitors this year. The weather was perfect, warm, sun shining and no wind. It was so calm and peaceful, it would be easy to forget that there is a world of hustle and bustle beyond. I could have stayed for hours just enjoying my own company, nature and the tranquility of the area."
"We drove around Patrica Lake, and didn't actually stop anywhere. The scenery was stunning though. We parked at Pyramid Lake, and walked the short distance across the bridge to Pyramid Island. It was so beautiful there. You can actually reserve the space with benches, for a wedding. What outstanding scenery. There is a nice path around the island, with lots of benches, and picnic tables to enjoy your lunch."
The lakes are located just north of Jasper. Much quieter than maligne lake and a nice place to relax. Much better opportunities to see bears and other wildlife.
Take the time to visit Pyramid and Patricia lakes. They are both beautiful. Make sure so go to the end of the road. Canoes can be rented.
"When in this part of the world I believe you MUST simply see them all. Each has its own character and none are off the beaten path by much which makes it very easy to stop for a moment or longer, stretch the legs, enjoy the scenery."
"We spent a week in the Banff and Jasper area and one of my goals was to have an opportunity to canoe on a mountain lake, after having checked out the canoe rentals at Maligne Lake and Lake Louise, I was pleased to see that a canoe rental was available for just $40 per hour. My teenage son and I shared an experience that we'll cherish for a lifetime. The Pyramid Lake may not be quite as scenic as the others, but is of a small enough size that we were able to cover almost the entire lake in the hour even though we were both inexperienced at canoeing."
"Just a skip and a hop when you are staying in Jasper... beautiful, need to check it out... worth the detour..."
We went sightseeing to these two locations and we're not disappointed. Both lakes were beautiful with great scenery. We got some great pictures in a relaxing area.
If these lakes were in another location they would be considered stunning but they do not really compare to other scenery in the Rockies. Nice enough for a drive up from Jasper in a summer evening for an hour. There appear to be several walking trains from the car park.
"We completed a stunning trail walk above Pyramid Lake, with terrific views. This was one of our favourite places to visit near Jasper."
We visited by car and took a short walk. The lakes and their setting is spectacular. What was nice was that in the spring there were not hundreds of tourists (as at Lake Louise). Just a few noisy Japanese who seemed to want to break the serenity of the place. Nice reflections of the mountains beyond.
"We went out to Pyramid lake for a 8km hike up a mountain, and it was a tough one but it was gorgeous! We saw a buck on the trail about 300m away from us. We then hiked to the peak and on our way back down we stopped at the lakes. You HAVE to see Pyramid Island if you go up here. Great location for engagement photos, weddings, really just anything romantic. It's incredibly scenic and a nice place to visit."
We didn't go into the cabins or the shops/stores. I use the primitive facilities. We did enjoy sitting on the public benches and looking over the lakes at the scenic views. The length of this stop varies by the time you take to medicate.
"Had a great picnic at pyramid lake, it was quiet and a beautiful place to sit down with our family to share a meal. Lots of picnic benches and the water was absolutely lovely. Parking was decent and a short walk to where we found a table. Wish other would clean up after themselves when using these spots! Not only does it effect others using the park but left over food just being dumped on the ground does attract bears that are in the area. Plenty of signage warning that."
These lakes are such a unique color. The views were stunning. Make sure you get out of the car and walk along the lakes.
There is nothing quite as spectacular as an early morning in the Rockies on a pristine lake with the mountains in the background. This is a spot well worth visting.
"Patricia Lake is ok, however Pyramid Lake is the best one, you can get some amazing pictures depending on the time of the day and where the sun is"
"While most visit these very attractive lakes by road, there is much to be said for getting there on foot using the excellent trail network around Jasper. For example, from Car Pak P3 on Bonhomme Street in Jasper, follow trail 2 northwards, crossing the Pyramid Lake Rd at P4, then following trail 15 to both lakes. You will not be far from the road but the trees screen it well. There are composting lavatories in the car parks. At Patricia Lake read about Geoffrey Pike's wartime experiments to create aircraft carriers with sawdust and ice. Or stitch together your own route from the many trails nearby to return to Jasper, eg from P4 taking trails 15, 8e, 8 and 11 to return to Bonhomme St."
"We visited the lakes multiple times, once to do the overlook loop trail and once to visit Pyramid Lake. The trail was muddy but provided incredible views over Patricia, Pyramid and Edith lake. On our second visit we saw 2 elk with antlers on the road to the lake, and went for a canoe on the lake. The views of the surrounding mountains and the serenity whilst sitting on the lake was incredible, even on a cloudy day. I do suggest trying to do the lake activities when there is little to no wind as the wind made it a bit bumpier on the lake when it kicked in. Such an incredible spot so close to town!"
"The 2 lakes are very near to Jasper town! You can drive there in just 10 mins, which we did. I'm sure you can do a hike there from the town too. There weren't many people, so you can enjoy quiet moments there, have a nice little picnic, with a good view! There are nicer lakes out there (with more people) with a longer drive out too. So you may actually skip these 2 lakes, if you only have limited time, and really just want to visit the better known ones."
We were in Jasper when there was a showing of an aurora. The light pollution from the town meant the show was not as good as it could have been so we went up to Patricia and Pyramid where it was darker. The best view was from the foot bridge at Pyramid where the reflections in the still water enhanced the experience. Stayed there until 2am watching this natural wonder.
"Wonderful views, fun boat renting, relaxed atmosphere, highly rec for families, good accommodation around, only 5 minutes drive from Jasper."
Love this area of Jasper. Peaceful and beautiful with trails to explore and boats to rent. The little island just past the Pyramid Lodge is a gem.
These two lakes are lovely with Patricia a bit bigger and nicer and quieter Not a lot of wildlife but you can hire a boat and an hour of riding is good funYou can swim but it's coldIt's a nice change from the very big lakesNot spectacular but cosy
"We visited late May 2017 and boat rentals were available at the Pyramid Lake Resort jetty. Look for the little shed near the car park facing the lake. They provide life jackets etc and you can pick from canoes, kayaks, larger tin boats, or some cute leg paddling style ""floats"". Minimum hire is 30minutes. It was a wonderful sunny day, and Pyramid Lake is very calm (except for the odd small motorboat), so you can paddle out and float for a bit to enjoy the scenery like we did. We saw lots of people fishing from the boats too. Some were locals, I'm not sure if you can rent fishing gear from the boat rentals."
"We stopped for the night at the nearby Pyramid Lake Lodge which was a well run clean and comfortable night stop in Jasper although a few minutes by car outside the town.We stopped at Pyramid lake to take photos and were mesmerized by the tranquil beauty, it was a still afternoon and not a ripple on the lake this allowed the surrounding forests and mountains to reflect their dazzling face in the mirror of the lake. It was one of those never to be forgotten moments in time. Plan to take a picnick basket and soak up the tranquility."
"Gorgeous place, well worth a visit. The mountains and lake are a photographers paradise. Drive from Jasper is absolutely picturesque"
"Went here for the first time and found it to be an absolutely beautiful lake. The are places to launch your now power boats, an island were we saw people getting married, good fishing and a nice resort on the water.
A must see."
Breathtaking views! Was so happy to put my feet in the lakes!! Had such a great day with great memories!
These are just typical lakes for the area and have the picturesque mountains in the background. Their is a bridge across to Island in Pyramid lake which is pleasant to walk.
"This is a great wee trail from Jasper - about 10-15 minutes from Jasper town centre by car. The colour of the water was unbelievable and the spot so picturesque, but cold wind chased away most visitors. Lots of trails for hiking and biking which will be even more wonderful in summer and late spring."
"Have read so much about how fantastic these lakes were, but as we had spent a lot of time at Lac Beauvert, this really can't compete. Not far from town and well signposted. Lake lake, which can imagine will get busy in the summer."
These are nice lakes to view. They both have little beaches. A peaceful spot. We didn't see any animals.
"Lovely place to visit, views of the snow-capped mountains and relaxing walk around the lake. We were there early in the morning whilst the mist was rising, very pretty. 10 minute drive from jasper town centre."
"We've been to Jasper before but this was our first time seeing Pyramid and Patricia Lakes. So worth it! The reflection of the mountains in the lake is breathtaking, really makes you appreciate your surroundings a definite must see when in the Jasper area."
"I'd love to write a book on these two lakes, but nobody would read it. The lakes are beautiful both day and night. They are prime stargazing spots and have an excellent view for the northern lights and in particular, for photographing it. The island is a must-see and is easily accessible from the road. This is easily a place where, if not for tourists, you could spend the whole day there.This is one of those spots where you might not discover it because you have to go a different route than any of the other typical sights. At night, particularly after dark, you're likely to find kids partying at the beaches, but just as likely to find folks lying down and looking up at the stars. Troublesome animals are not a concern."
"Even though it was extremely cold and windy when we visited, the scenery was still amazing. The island on Pyramid lake is very accessible and takes about 10 min to walk around. We also hiked for an hour in the woods on well worn trails - there are several around there. On the drive out, we saw three bears!"
"Drove out of Jasper to see these lakes and boy, were they lovely. On one of the lakes is a little island that you can reach by way of a little bridge. Here you can see red squirrels and other wildlife. It is a venue for weddings and we could see why. A beautiful peaceful stetting. The only flaw in the visit was although there was a resort / hotel on the shores, it was not open when we visited. It would be the perfect spot to stop and have a coffee and take in the scenery but was not to be!"
we stayed at Patricia lake resort just down the way. we went on the loop walk absolutely beautiful. mountains everywhere and water that was so clear. beautiful :)
"When visiting this area, it was the end of April. It was snowing there and still lots of snow in the area. There was nothing to see. The parking lots were cleared but couldn't go walk any were to even see the lake"
"Well worth the trip. Bus trips run from downtown if you have no access to a
car. Great reflection views of the mountains into the lakes."
"Level walk from edge of Pyramid Lake out to the Island. Beautiful views, places to sit, picnic tables. Perfect place for families or to rent for a wedding (yes, they do that!)"
"Stunning views and beautiful water. Prettiest in early spring, when the mountains are blanketed in white."
"Well worth the bike ride or car ride to Pyramid and Patricia Lakes!Just a short car ride(about 7 minutes) bike ride (about 15-20 minutes) depends on how much cycling you do normally.There are small beaches around the lake. But I think the water may be somewhat chilly. Haha ( there was still some ice around the edges)There is a small resort just before you get to the area I mention next but we did not stop in there so can't say what it's like, it seemed busy and someone I know stayed there with their grandchildren once and seemed to like it.There are a few parking spaces by the area they are revitalizing with paths and a wooden bridge to a small island with fantastic views! This is about 3/4 of the way up the road after the turnoff for Lake Patricia and just past the resort.At the end of the road is parking and hiking trails and more great views.There are washrooms in this lot."
"Beautiful, gorgeous lakes surrounded by spectacular mountains. The view is a million dollar view. Just so serene, peaceful, relaxing, and gorgeous. Great place to have a picnic and enjoy the wildlife and the beauty of the lakes. Great beautiful colors of the lakes are amazing. Glacier lakes."
"We visited in last week of July and lakes just seemed just okay at that time with no snow covered mountains ....After seeing Lake Louise , these lakes appear dull"
"These lakes are only a 5-10 minute drive from Jasper, but unless you are going to swim or enjoy the mosquitoes lakeside, there is little else here."
"Nice places to go for a few hours. Pyramid Lake has a gorgeous view of Pyramid Mountain, which is one of my favourite of the big 5 surrounding Jasper. Take out a canoe or kayak, go for a hike or just sit down and drink in the views. Either way, you can't go wrong stopping by either of these 2 lakes."
"Just a short <15 minute drive from Jasper center, these lakes and the surrounding mountains are definitely worth a visit. I only had time for a quick drive up-and-back but even that short trip was memorable. The narrow road is cut through a dense forest that is almost magical to drive through. Once you get to the lakes the views are gorgeous. During warmer weather there appears to be boating on the lakes. At Pyramid Lake there is a resort and dining area that looked interesting but unfortunately I didn't have time to experience them. I would particularly like to try staying at the lodge in the off season to experience what I'm sure would be a wonderful quiet."
"This is one of the beautiful places round Jasper. The little island is a lovely place and you can go over a little bridge to access this small island. The water is clear, but pretty could. It's hard for swimming."
We always visit these lakes when we come to Jasper! This was different visiting in the spring with the lakes still frozen the views are amazing. The little island in pyramid lake is a nice little walk good for the whole family and wheelchair accessible. Our 2 toddlers had fun. Definitely a must see and it's free!
"No reason to not check these two lakes out, they make beautiful pictures. Road is on the back side of town, will take you up the mountain, maybe a 15 min drive up. Keep driving on the road til it ends, the last stop will be the one that has the trail out to the highly photographed Pyramid Lake Island. Go early or later to avoid crowds jamming up your pictures :)"
"Worth a visit, although lakes were frozen still very impressive. Car park and outhouses available. Great views back towards the mountains, worth a walk to a small island with a bridge across."
Right after the Pyramid lake resort there is a small parking lot on the left hand side which will take you to a small walk around Pyramid island. There is a small wooden bridge which was quite nice. The walk is quite short but the views of Pyramid Mountain the lake and other mountains is truly stunning.
"Very best view on pyramid mt on pyramid lake from the little dock short before the resort, onot the left there are some little beaches with same d, picnic tables and fire pit. Easy entry to the water.Patricia Lake has very beautifull colours worth to see with the canoe, the picnic area is a bit away from the lake but for rainy days there is a shelter with stove."
We are coming back this summer to explore and check more things out. I would love to hike with the kids and show them wht a wonder place we live in.
Great Lakes to kayak on! Beautiful clear water right in the middle of the mountains. Gorgeous! Recommend for all types of day use. There are also hiking trails nearby.
"Visited with the family on a quiet day - we were the only people on the island - so great photo opportunities on the bridge and on the island beaches. Very easy to access the island - straight from the parking area, and you can walk around the island in twenty minutes, so good for unaccomplished hikers like us. Great views across the frozen lake to the mountains, and some nice benches to take time to take it all in on all sides of the island."
This is a gem of a place. Once parked up we walked across a bridge and wandered around the island taking photos. The island was very quiet as we visited in April.
"Pyramid and Patricia lakes are nice mountain lakes. Pyramid Lake has a resort/hotel on it as well as a boat/kayak rental which operates in summer.
Lake itself is too cold for swimming though even in late summer."
These lakes are surrounded by so many mountains. There's some great trails and neat little areas to explore! Definitely a worthwhile visit!
"My sister and I stayed at the Patricia lake bungalows. We had booked early so we had a cabin close to the lake. Our cabin was clean and spacious, it would have been great for my family. Patricia lake is a smaller lake with a spectacular view. You can rent canoes and kayaks. We only stayed there, using it as a base to explore the rest of the area since it is so close to jasper and many hikes etc. I would return there in a heartbeat."
"Pyramid Lake was a very comfortable walk. Easy to get to, great views, signs explaining different aspects of the area. It was very good."
"Located approx 15-25 minutes drive to Pyramid Island car park from Jasper town centre, along a narrow winding & beautiful road, these are 2 tranquil and picturesque lakes to visit. The car parks are right next to the lakes, no hills to walk up/down, and on a calm day the lakes are like glass. Pyramid Island is a short walk over a wooden foot bridge & has a lovely picnic area. Great place if you like to meditate. Well worth the drive."
"Pyramid Lake is a short distance from Jasper and worth the drive. In winter, it offers an outdoor hockey rink, curling rink, skating rink, cross country skiing and several walking trails. The short hike to the Island is strongly recommended."
We always stop by here to have a wander and bring a pic nice lunch while sitting near the water. If your brave enough you might go for a very quick dip in the glacial waters on a hot day.
"Close to Jasper, these lakes are easily accessible after breakfast, lunch or dinner (or eat out at Pyramid Lake Resort). The drive from town almost always offered wildlife viewing--elk, loons, bufflehead ducks."
Took our dog for a walk and the views are beautiful. Easy to get to with good signage. Several options for trails.
"We drove to Pyramid Lake in October and it was so perfect . Quiet from the Jasper life, but absolutely beautiful ! It was actually were my boyfriend proposed to me. It will certainly hold a part in our hearts!"
We decided to go for a drive while in Jasper and found Pyramid lake Resort. It was such a nice surprise. I expect it would be amazing in the summer and there was skating rinks and a form of curling/bocce on the lake as well. We look forward to coming back and booking accommodation here in the near future!
Lots of hiking trails in summer and skating on frozen lake in winter. Cold to swim in but possible. Mountain views
"Driving on the Pyramid Road to get to the lakes, we always spotted wildlife. The lakes are great to visit unless a tour bus is there then it gets crowded at Pryamid Island. You can read about my trip and wildlife spotting at winenchocolate dot com."
"Easy and fun hike in the snow to the outcrop into the frozen lake, and then to walk on the lake itself. Blue skies and sparkly snow, brilliant to see the lake expanse with the mountain backdrop."
We rented a paddleboat and had a lovely afternoon on the lake. It was gorgeous out there. Lovely walk on the island too.
This is a classic for the photography tourist. Instagram is plastered with pictures of these two lakes. Go early or late for sun rise and sun setsAlso it's best to get there before the crowdsAlso if the northern lights are out then it's the best place in the park to see them Enjoy
"It was a beautiful sunny day in January when I visited Pyramid Lake. Only a short drive from the Jasper townsite, Pyramid Lake is a gorgeous setting for skating, x country skiing, curling, dog sled rides and more! During summer months this is a favourite site for weddings because of the great setting in the mountains."
Recently hiked behind Pyramid Lake resort on trails 2 & 2B. Offer fantastic views of Pyramid Mountain as well as the lakes below. We wore our snowshoes as it was icy in some areas and we were thankful for the extra grip. Would be doable in hikers though too. Definitely worked up a sweat as there are steady inclines on this trail.
"I've driven up here a hand full of times and each time the views are unique and beautiful. The little island is cute for small outdoor weddings, the views are breathtaking from every angle. In the winter it is fun to walk on the frozen lake. There are horse-drawn wagon rides, dog sledding during Jasper in January, ice skating with bonfires, cross country skiing and more!"
Very nice area close to the city centre. The water is very clear good walking path. There are few activity like kayaking etc.
BEAUTIFUL !!! Take a canoe out or a paddle boat. Pyramid lake is calm and has great Mountain views to take in.
"Went at night during the Winter. Moon was bright, and even without flash, you can clearly take a picture of the whole lake and mountain background. You walk across the bridge and you can keep going on the island and take a walk on the Frozen Lake. Beautiful and Safe."
"Fantastic location for Photography as first sunlight illuminates the top of Mount Pyramid, beautiful with mist on the lake!"
"These lakes are not a tourist trap. This in my opinion is a plus. Some have mentioned that the Pyramid and Patricia lakes are not as good as say Lake Louise and Moraine I would not know as the sheer volume of tourists (yes I'm one as well) was too much for the roads/car parks to handle in that area. These lakes however were peaceful, had good paths and allowed us to spend a lovely afternoon admiring the views and mountains.If you are in the Jasper area I would recommend taking a trip to see them."
We come every year to skate on the lake and play some old fashion pond hockey with our boys on the lake. It always fun weather it's 0 or -20 degrees. This year they had horse sewn sleigh rides you could go on around the lake. We were too busy playing hockey to take in the ride but it looked fun. If you are cold they always have a fire going next to the rink. There is also along track around the lake if you want to do some sight seeing on your skates. I believe there is also snow shoe rentals. Over all easy to waist an afternoon on a beautiful lake in the middle of the mountains.
Beautiful views! Nice sized skating ricks/hockey rinks/curling rinks. Lots f space for cross-country skiing
The Rocky Mountains have so many beautiful lakes and every one is unique!!The appeal of these two is that they are so close to town and easy to access. With beautiful views and the ability to walk over the bridge and onto the island in the middle of the lake they are especially worth a visit!!We even braved the water on a beautiful July day and while it was a little chilly it was fun to splash around in.I highly recommend a visit!!
"Since snowshoeing was out, we decided to head out to Patricia and Pyramid Lakes. It was an overcast day, but the weather started to break overhead, so we began to get some sun and interesting skies.Patricia Lake was ice-free, as you'll see in the photos, and I got some nice shots of the lake with Pyramid Mountain in the background. Pyramid Lake was covered in ice, and we went on a short hike over to Pyramid Island and got more great photos. It was nice to be there in winter without the crowds!"
Very peaceful locations.. Not many facilities so not very busy. Great photos with reflections of mountains etc.
"This is a Heavenly Place, full of The Blessings of The Mother Nature..
Sometimes, in The Summers, The adjorning Mountains are Clearly seen, next moment, under clouds. Its Divine!"
"I'm not afrait to say, that it's the most beautiful area near Jasper (>20miles). Lots of hike trails with view at pyramid mountain and Rocky mountains."
We went up in the hope of seeing some wildlife. While we didn't see any the view of the mountains and their reflection on the lake was worth the short drive
"Stunning views easy access plenty of wildlife if your quiet,we saw whitetail deer elk,squirrels plenty of birds there are bike trails if that's what you like or lots of walking routes"
"This is an all season attraction, and thankfully, it's gorgeous there in every season. Not so well known is that the lakes have a small beaches, and in the summer you can swim in them. Pyramid Lake is the more accessible, with several parking areas and access points. Plus, the island on Pyramid lake has a mystique and beauty that is hard to beat. Also, Pyramid Lake does have a good restaurant nearby, as part of the resort accommodations. Patricia Lake has more hiking trails around it, but no special feature like the island on Pyramid Lake. In the summer, riding stables nearby provide equestrian access to the area, which means that some of the trails can be very muddy if they are used by horses, so beware. Even the drive from the townsite to these lakes is wonderful, so if you haven't visited these lakes, you haven't visited Jasper."
The walk across the bridge to the island is breathtaking. A family of deer walked the island with us. It was a highlight. The Lakes can be so still that the reflections are unbelievable.
Just a short drive out of Jasper townsite to Pyramid Lake and well worth it as you get away from the crowds. The lakes are incredible and the scenery is amazing! There is a nice easy hike around the lake which takes you away from most people and there are boats you can rent in the summer time.
"This area is one of our favourites in the world. These lakes offer lots of summer time activities, such as canoeing, paddle boats, and swimming. There is year round dock. Our most recent visit was in November, so it was very quiet and we had the beach to ourselves so our dog could swim. There are lots of hiking and walking paths in the area, and ample parking and washroom facilities. Dog bag dispensers are available. We love coming here to visit year round. Must see destination for any traveler to the area."
Needing to do our laundry before continuing on our travels we found that Jasper had a laundry on their main street. Much to my delight in the laundry there was also a cafe where I could sip a cafe latte and do my internet work while I cleaned our clothes!
The wife and I went for a nice drive to both of the lakes. The scenery was beautiful and we also saw some wildlife in the wooded areas. It was definitely worth the drive.
"Unfortunately it was very overcast the day we visited but we enjoyed our drive and walk. The road out to the lakes is easily found just north of the centre of Jasper and is called Pyramid Lake Road. You just drive this road which takes you past both lakes. You first reach the top end of Patricia Lake before reaching the bottom of Pyramid Lake no more than 500 metres apart. From a parking lot a very short walk takes you to Pyramid Island which has mountain and lake views with seats to sit and enjoy the views from. We drove a short distance further to where the road stops, barriered and becomes a fire road only. We parked there where there are good maps showing walks in the area. We chose a short walk which followed the lakeside. It was very peaceful and we saw several red squirrels."
I have little time to spend in Jasper and have little time to trek. These two pretty lakes are within close distance from Jasper and can be easily visited within an hour. The Pyramid Beach just before the Lake itself should not be missed either and it is from here some good photo of the beach can be taken.
A must to see if your ever in Jasper. Its not a long drive and well worth seeing. Just amazing scenery.
"The lakes are just an 11 minute, 3.5 mile drive from the center of Jasper. Pickup Pyramid Lake Road starting just two blocks north of the RR station and follow it to the lake. You first come to Patricia Lake with two pull off view points. Further up the road you arrive at Pyramid Lake Resort, canoe rentals available. About 0.5 mi. beyond, there is another pull off view point. Perhaps best time to visit is early morning to see the mirror reflection of Pyramid Mountain in the still waters of Patricia Lake. Did this review deserve a “helpful” vote?"
"Those are small but lovely lakes that located 15 minutes from Jasper town, easily reachable by car.."
"These lakes are not so special compared to other much more beautiful lakes in the Rockies.But, the perfect reflection you get on the patricia lake in the early morning makes it all worthwhile to stay right here, in the Patricia Lake Bungalows.For the morning serenity here, I would give the Patricia Lake a couple more stars, i.e. 4 stars for that experience ;)"
It was a very dismal day when we went here - low visibility and quite damp. This meant that there were few people there so we had the trail to the Island on Pyramid Lake to ourselves - still great scenery and not at all strenuous to get the best viewss
We were very lucky. Took a drive up there from Jasper after a night of snow. Absolute fairyland stuff for someone who hasn't grown up with snow. Enjoyed every minute
"I found the best time of day to visit this area is in the morning. If you're lucky and there's no to little wind, the reflections of Pyramid Mountain on the Lake is incredible. Bring a camera...this is the type of shot you blow up and hang in your house. The dock add a very good contrast as a man-made object on the water with all the nature. This is a very beautiful and serene place to visit...D'"
"A gentle stroll to the island, lovely views and very peaceful.ideal for people with young children as no hills"
"I've been to Jasper many many times - and it wasn't until recently that I stumbled upon these lakes...simply amazing.If you want the pictures and the breathtaking scenery, this is the place to go.If you have a kayak, I envy you, because Patricia Lake is perfect for said activity. You can also rent them on Pyramid Lake.I'll be having lunch on the bench at the Patricia Lake Beach every time I visit Jasper in the warm months."
"Beauitful lakes especially in the snow , we went twice because first time hadn't snow and views not exciting , the day after it had snowed and all together different On the way up we saw some elks beauitful to photo but don't get to near as they can attack if in the mood to At lake pyramid there is some where to get a coffee or warm drink ( have to make own and a small charge )"
Beautiful lakes! Easy to walk to from the town and void of the tourist hoards that seem to head to the places further away from town by car.
"My husband and I stopped at Pyramid Lake and saw they had rentals of canoes, rowboats, paddleboats and kayaks. We opted for a canoe as the weather was perfect. Enjoyed a wonderful paddle and great views and loons too. Lovely."
"Romantic spot for sunset. Canoeing there must be great!
Discovered the place during the wildlife tour and came back for fotos and the beautiful sunset the next day."
I was so disappointed in Lake Louise and greatly appreciated the simple beauties at these lakes. Skip Louse and head here.
"We went there twice, once to do some wildlife spotting and once to try and view the northern lights. Great spot for both! It is a lovely and very idyllic location. Absolutely worth visiting while in Jasper! Two more of the wonderful lakes that are around Jasper national park!"
We visited at dusk. The setting sun was very pretty on the water. There's a short bridge to walk across to the island which is pretty and a nice place for a picnic or just a short walk.
You can enjoy one of many hikes on well marked trails. They tend to be easy with not a lot of climbing. In the summer the beaches are a nice afternoon. Enjoy lunch at Pyramid Lake. It is a nice day and very close to town.
"These lakes are only about 10 minutes outside of town. Patricia Lake is pretty, but Pyramid is even more scenic. You can walk out to Pyramid Island; there are picnic tables on the island. The bridge walkway to the island can be windy; I dropped a glove and another man dropped his car keys into the river. Both were obtained, but warning: hang on to your belongings. Nevertheless, it's quiet and peaceful out on the island and offers great view of the surrounding mountains. Both of these lakes are just 10 minutes drive outside of Jasper. Pyramid Lake Lodge looked like a nice lodging option right across the road from the lake. We were told that people go out on the island at night to see the stars; Jasper is known as a Dark Sky area."
"I would recommend visiting in the morning as with the direction of the sun, you will get the best views over the lake back to the snow capped mountains. Drive to Pyramid Lake and go out on its little island for great photos. These are nice lakes, but compared to Peyto, Moraine and Lake Louise, they are pedestrian"
"We felt that these lakes are perhaps a little less visited than others nearby. It was a very misty September morning when we went and the views were magical. They obviously get much busier in the summer as there is the opportunity to do various water activities such as diving, kayaking, canoeing and swimming."
These two lakes are worth the drive from Jasper - about 10 minutes and the walk onto the little island in pyramid lake is very easy.
"These lakes are just a short drive from Jasper, we went early in the morning and again in late afternoon to see the different lights on the lakes. Both occasions were beautiful but Pyramid lake island was our favourite bit. Patricia lake is best for photos though. We saw elk on the way up but they are pretty hard to miss in Jasper!"
Drove from Jasper out to the 2 Lakes - very pretty country and Pyramid Mountain with Pyramid Lake at it's feet is very nice. Had a picnic lunch by Patricia Lake on a bench - we were the only people around - wonderful.
If you have one lake to visit see Pyramid first. Quite and very pretty. Not the deep blue you have come accustomed to like Louise but still pretty. Note the beautiful while trees on the way. That was pretty in itself. Lots of wild life to see if you are lucky. We saw an elk and a fox. Well worth the visit and it will be quick
These are both very nice lakes with abundant trails for hiking. Although not the BEAUTIFUL BLUE of some of the glacier fed lakes like Lake Louise and others I was still happy we visited these.
"We visited these lakes as a time filler at the end of the day and we were pleased we did. They aren't going to blow you away like Maligne or Moraine Lakes, but they are still very beautiful and no crowds, so very peaceful. If you only have time for one, go to Pyramid as the mountain views are stunning and there's a lovely bridge over to the island."
"These 2 lakes which are a quick few minutes drive from the town of Jasper, are amazing during sunrise and sunset as well. Just relax by the water or rent a kayak/canoe etc and explore different places across the lake."
"Believe not many tourist get up to these gems! Beautiful area, actually picked up info for the nieces for Pyramid Lake where they have chalets and boats for rent. Seen the most wild life just west of Patricia Lake that we had seen on our trip in the Rockies until leaving heading east out of Jasper. Put these lakes on your itinerary!"
"Two pretty lakes near Jasper , 20 min from town, great views, trees and mountains, canoes and a lodge, nice place to stay for a few days in the summer instead of town of Jasper, peaceful and breathtaking"
"Please add to your todo list. This place is spectacular and won't disappoint. It is so very serene.
Grateful to Joanne at the Hinton Visitors Bureau for recommending it."
"We took the short drive from Jasper to Pyramid Lake, not expecting anything extraordinary but were we wrong! Stunning scenery and an amazing walkway across a bridge onto an island with a pathway and numerous benches. Stunning mountain views, and the lake is gorgeous. Very relaxing and I highly recommend it if you are in the Jasper area."
We hiked from Jasper (be warned it's a fair walk - 5.3kms through the woods). Patricia Lake was definitely worth the view - it was stunning! Pyramid Lake didn't really compare to Patricia Lake. The restaurant is only opened in the morning and then closed for a few hours to open again at 5pm so make sure to bring plenty of water and food.
"PROS: the drive to the lakes is a great opportunity to see wildlife, specifically, black bears! The lakes themselves are quite pretty & worth a view. The history of Patricia lake is fascinating. The walk around the island at Pyramid Lake is short (20 mins) and accessible for those with limited mobility. CONS: We went on a Saturday and there was a wedding on the island at Pyramid Lake, so we didn't go on the islandTIPS: Go around sunrise/sunset for the best views of the mountain/lake and wildlife."
"Ideal for a swim in the summer or for a BBQ with the family, these crystal clear lakes are both very near the town of Jasper, jet unspoilt. No huge parking lots, over the top facilities or buildings, just small beaches, a few BBQs and picnick benches. Perfect"
"There are a lot of good walking tracks around the lakes. They provided great views of the lakes, Pyramid mountain, and Jasper. The tracks are very well signed and we found that taking a photo of the map board on a phone gave us a useful map, which was very handy."
"The lakes are beautiful and the water is stunning. Good walk for kids and families, restaurant and the cabins are near by.
Good place for kayaking and boating."
We visited late one afternoon and enjoyed a peaceful lakeside walk. The scenery was lovely. As we were leaving we were lucky enough to see Mummy bear plus two cubs.
"These two small lakes are not very far from the centre of Jasper but we found them to be very peaceful and quiet. In addition, they are stunningly beautiful. Pyramid Island, linked to the mainland by a small bridge, is absolute heaven."
Early morning on a nice day is the best time to go up to the lakes. The road to the lakes is in need of some repair.
"A nice pair of lakes very close to Jasper, a short drive or a longish trek. The view is nice, the forest too. The little island linked to mainland by a short bridge has some benches where you can sit down to take the scenery in.It is also a popular wedding place (we saw a ceremony taking place)."
"The lake is nice, incredibly clear, but the real treasure is the wildlife in the area. One bull elk walked right in front of our car."
Went to Puramid and Patricia Lakes. The scenery was beautiful. Make sure that you stop at Pyramid Island and get the best picture of Pyramid Mountain. The combination of sun and clouds made for some great photos.
Pyramid lake was not on my itinerary but was recommended to me by a woman at our hotel-it did not disappoint -an easy drive out of town to an island on a beautiful lake. Easy walk with lots of benches to sit and enjoy the scenery .
These lakes were crystal clear and spectacular. You can walk around the foliage and see wildlife and serene nature paths.
Stopped off here as patricia is my mum's name and what a find! Picturesque lake that was stunning. Loved the fact you could get right to the shore for photos.
"We tried to hike here, but the trail system is very complicated and neither the trails nor the trail heads are well marked. The parking areas are numbered, but the map provided by Parks Canada doesn't bother to list the numbers for some of these, so you're not sure where you are parking. Furthermore, good luck finding the trailhead, as most just cross the road someplace without being marked. While we were hiking, we often came to a junction of trails in which the crossing trail was unmarked. We wound up looping back to the car way before we wanted to because of this lack of information. With all the bears around, the least they could to is to make it possible to know where you are!"
Did the walk to pyramid island was quite enjoyable and easy for everyone in our group as activity levels varied greatly. Beautiful scenery and great place for photos. The drive there was great and saw some wildlife on the way.
"the lakes are worth a visit and there are plenty of hiking trails to take but the road up to the lakes was our best sighting area for wildlife. 3 days running we saw black bears, Elk and very excitingly a grizzly."
These two lakes are close to Jasper and are surrounded by a network of excellent paths for walking and mountain biking. Views of Pyramid Mountain are spectacular.
Pyramid lake is so beautiful. Much better than Patricia lake. The beautiful reflection of mountains and surrounding on the lake are so breathe taking. It is so close to town and easy to get to. Do not miss seeing this wonderful attraction.
Beautfiul scenery - gorgeous lake! The lodge there is rustic but really nice! You can rent paddle boats or canoes as the lake is usually calm and glass like. If you follow the road past the lodge it is quite narrow - so caution is advised. But really worth it as you can park a little ways down and walk to a gazebo and a absolutely scenic and fantastic place to take pictures or have a wedding - it is set up that way - with benches and spot for the happy couple to stand! Simply breathtaking...go see it while you can - especially in the late spring or early fall!
"We were fortunate to go reasonably early in the morning from Jasper which is only a small distance away. The scenery was spectacular (particularly Patricia Lake) - clear visibility, little wind. amazing views. On the downside at this time of year no food is available so we had to return into Jasper for some lunch. But every cloud has a silver lining - on our way back to Pyramid lake for a spot of kayaking, we passed a black bear at the side of the road. The kayaking was a little strenuous for us old people as the wind was a little stiff in the afternoon. Nevertheless what a fabulous experience being on such a quiet lake with such spectacular scenery."
"These ""sister"" lakes are worth the short drive from downtown Jasper. They are very serene and offer impressive views of the nearby mountiains."
Pyramid Island is at the top of pyramid lake and is well worth a visit. There is a small bridge across and the walk around the island takes 20 to 30 minutes. The view are fantastic and the island has many interesting plants.
A lovely lake with stunning views of the mountains. Not too many tourists around which make it more peaceful than some of the other lakes. You can park right by the lake so can do as much or as little walking as you like! Lots of picnic benches available so would be perfect for a picnic.
"Whilst these aren't in the top 10 from a spactacle point of view, they are a superb place for an evening picnic or a lakeside meal when you have a limited amount of time available. You can also hire kayaks, rowboats and pedal boats, and there's a walkway out to a small restored island with info boards telling the story. There's a small covered building for your picnic if you are a coward, or taking cover if you get caught in a shower."
This lake is so pretty and little walking is involved since it's right by the roadside. Be sure to visit both since they offer different views. There aren't many people visiting at any one time so parking is easy.
"A short drive from Jasper, about 15 mins. Beautiful Lakes. Pyramid Lake has a small island, adds the excitement. When you go to Jasper, visit these lakes, you won't regret."
"Not having much time to spare, we were recommended to go to Pyramid Island - and combined with its lake and mountain, a great place to see. Peaceful walk, beautiful views."
Just 10 mins drive from Jasper town. OPostcard perfect scenery. Definitely worth a short trip up. Spotted a black bear on the way up which definitely was a plus! Remember not to go too close to wildlife !
"Drove up to the lakes on a cold windy day, and it was still very pleasant. Especially Pyramid lake with the small island you can visit via a causeway. Would be very nice in warmer weather, could bring a picnic."
"A very peaceful lake with no motorized watercraft. Surrounded by mountains, and forest. Just a beautiful, clear lake to enjoy."
"Had a drive here early one evening, just before the sun was setting. What another amazingly beautiful place. Every time we went anywhere in Jasper National Park, we kept thinking it couldn't get any better, but it did."
"I loved Patricia lake better than Pyramid lake as it has better views of the mountains, both lakes are perfect mirrors and when the sun is up , it mirrors everything perfectly. Beautiful places to watch a suset"
"Pyramid and Patricia Lakes are absolutely beautiful!!! They are pristine mountain lakes that offer nice day use and picnic areas. If you want a nice lunch spot, these lakes do not disappoint. Although Pyramid Lake was the larger of the 2, Patricia Lake was prettier. The mountains in the background reflected perfectly in the peaceful water. Easy to get to just north of town and looked like they both had the ability to rent canoes or kayaks. Restroom (pit toilets) were also available on site, so just a really nice area to spend 30 minutes or an entire afternoon. Lots of people picnicking, riding bikes, walking dogs, just sitting by the lake reading. Do not miss if you are in the area!!"
"The decor is a bit dated. But it is very nice area, facing the lake, watching the sunrise. Restaurant is nice, good food, only complain a bit cold but we have big party of 8."
Both lakes just a short drive from downtown Jasper and just beautiful. There are beaches around the lakes and lots of picnic areas. There is a great hiking trail that loops the lake too. The aspens were turning fall yellow and were so pretty. Not crowded and sunset here over the lake was beautiful
Pyramid lake and mountain are worth seeing. A really nice place for a picnic lunch with utterly spectacular views (what you accept as the norm in Jasper!)
"These lakes are good for the views, and maybe a bit of water sports . We spotted a rental location on pyramid lake.From our point of view, the scenery and view of pyramid mountain is what made this a great visit. Get out onto the island in Pyramid Lake."
"Few minutes from Jasper town driving 20-30km hoping to spot a wildlife glad we did bear cub along the way and ended in this picturesque mountain reflection in the clear water. So relaxing just to watch the view sitting on bench, came late guess you could rent a kayak also"
"These lakes are off the main tourist track but are only a few minutes drive out of Jasper. They are stunningly beautiful and are packed with wildlife. We visited later in the afternoon in August and practically had it to ourselves. We came close to large Elk and narrowly missed seeing a Grizzly ( just caught others leaving from seeing it). The short walk out and around Pyramid Island is really relaxing. If you have an hour+ to spare, take this place in."
"We took the Via Rail from Vancouver to Jasper. As soon as we reached Jasper, we picked up the rental car, picked up our Car Pass from Jasper National Park office and headed for these 2 pretty lakes.It very pretty and if you get a chance, should try to book the lodging/bungalows on site. they look beautiful and will do that next time, but I guess we need to book way ahead of time."
"This place is very nice. Good place to take a picnicking lunch
Read the sign at Patricia Lake very good information that people probably don't know."
"These are gorgeous lakes surrounded by majestic mountains, very scenic places. Pyramid Lake is an excellent location for a family photo with Pyramid Mountain in the background."
These lakes are pretty close to each other and can provide an excellent opportunity to hike from one to the other. They are both majestic and have great opportunities for great photos. I suggest you take at least half a day and explore both lakes because there are quite a few trails in the area.
"I think the walk would be better done not soon after rain as the track is shared by horses and they churn up the track somewhat. Also there was a lot of horse droppings along the way. Patricia lake itself is very nice, and the views would be better than we had on this overcast day. We were also somewhat distracted as this area was under a ""bear warning"" as told to us at the Jasper Visitor centre. It is a little hard to find where to park, you need to park right at the horseback riding centre for which there is a sign, and then walk back to the highway and over the road where the track starts."
Loved our time spent here! On the drive up we saw a black bear eating berries on the side of the road. These lakes are incredibly close and accessible from Jasper.
"We took in The Patricia Lake and Pyramid lake. We hiked the loop at Pyramid, it was a nice hike! Make sure you have your water and good hiking shoes."
Hiking along the south shore of Patricia Lake reveals som scenic views to the mountains north of the lake. This is a quiet hike and you may only be 'disturbed' by the horseback tours from Jasper Stables.
"Pyramid lake is a wonderful lake to canoe or kayak on. If you don't have your own, you can rent one from the Pyramid Lake Chalet and Resort. I've been twice over the last few months to try out the fishing. Some nice rainbow and elusive lake trout, as well as Rocky Mountain White fish. Fishing can be hit or miss depending on the season and weather, but who cares when your on this beautiful lake early in the morning listening to the loons calling!"
"These two beautiful lakes are located a short drive out of Jasper town, and are easy to find. We visited both lakes last week on our tour around BC and Alberta. We drove to Pyramid lake first, which has a small resort attached, and is the busier of the two. It is a lovely blue alpine lake, with a mountain backdrop that glows a reddish hue when the sunlight catches it. A very pretty lake to have a short stroll along.Further back along the road is Patricia lake, which has a very similar look to Pyramid lake, but is quieter. There are a number of wooden benches on the lakeshore that are great to sit on and take in the views.Both lakes are well worth a visit on any trip to Jasper. This is also prime bear country. We saw two black bears at the roadside on our trip out to these lakes, so keep your eyes peeled !"
"Ideal place for sunset. Parking can be a problem.The GPS took us to the bunglows, ignore it and continue straight to the lakes."
"Amazing Pyramid mountain view sitting on a bench on a quiet island. Cross the short bridge and sit on the bench infront the PYRAMID.
Sandy beach on this lake, 2 minuets drive from this attrction."
We drove out here on the morning we left Jasper it was a short drive to some of the most beautiful views in the town. You could easily take one of the walking trails if you wanted to spend more time here and it would be beautiful at sunset no doubt
The little Island that you walk out to is very pretty. It would be a great place for a picnic. You can rent a canoe or paddle boat as well here. It does not take long to walk around this little island. Well worth seeing at least once!
"Beautiful scenery and pleasant easy walk. Picnic tables and benches. Lovely way to spend an afternoon. You can go canoeing, though we didn't."
"Pyramid Lake is my 'go to' spot in Jasper to hike in and find a quiet little spot by the lake to just sit, read and take in the spectacular views and surroundings. Never disappoints!!"
The lake is beautiful and the walk around the island and across the bridge was romantic as we took it at sunset. As an added bonus on the drive to the lake we saw a large black bear. Great example of the natural beauty so easily accessible in Jasper so close to the town.
Drove out to the lakes & took several marked trails. Saw some interesting birds & lots of squirrels. Took a picnic as no facilities.
"We went to Pyramid Lake on a grey misty day and was still very impressed. Wish the weather had of been nicer for us to hire a canoe or go for a swim. Go across to Pyramid Lake Island, very private little spots over there to have picnic, quietly sit at waters edge, very peaceful. The Island can be hired for private functions also."
"Beautiful waters framed by beautiful mountains, the color of these lakes are amazing. At Pyramid Lake you can rent paddle boats, 1- and 2-person kayaks, canoes,and row boats to explore at $30/half hour or $40 per hour. Restaurant and souvenirs at Pyramid if interested too."
"A trip to Patricia Lake and Pyralid Lake is definately worthwhile.
Patricia Lake is very quiet and relaxing.
At Pyramid Lake be certain to take the tour of the little island"
"Pyramid Island has a beautiful view of the mountains and a picnic area. You can canoe, paddle boat, swim in these lakes although it might be a bit cold. One can enjoy soaking up the beauty and serenity of these lakes."
"Pyramid lake is beatiful, several spots for beach access and the water is crystal clear. We visited the island on our way out. There are several awesome spots with great views on the island for a picnic, tables provided."
Really love this area and it's taken way too many years to discover it. The lake waters were clear and not too cold - definitely swimmable and Pyramid has a great beach area which was also being enjoyed by a young elk.
This is a nice short trip from Jasper. Probably less that 14 kilometers. Theses lakes are beautiful and the island on Pyramid Lake is a nice spot for Wedding photos & other things. The Pyramid Lodge is very Alpine like. I come to Jasper a lot and always go up that road.
"Stopped at both lakes on our bus tour. 10minutes at Patricia Lake where there was a family of ducks unperturbed by our intrusion - that's all about the time you need here for photos. Our stop at Pyramid Lake and onto the island we had about 30minutes, which was okay. If only the clouds lifted higher, nevertheless we had a reasonable view from all directions. It was quite a scenic spot and quite popular - paths well worn and a boardwalk bridge."
"Both lakes are an incredible view and are surrounded by forest and mountains. It's a great place for photography because of the reflections. There is the beginning of the pine beetle infestations so go sooner, rather an later."
"We kept going back to these gems many times during our 6 days in Jasper. We saw them in clear skies and cloudy, drizzly days. Well worth the time. There is a short trail around a small island, that is maintained by volunteers. There is a bridge for access. Nice place for quiet reflection."
Weather was great for this excursion! Beautiful lake and mountains! Worth the short drive from Jasper!
"nice and easy hiking
the two lakes are amazing and the area is very quiet: very few tourists here
I saw two bears on my way back to Jasper!!!"
"This review is of Patricia Lake and Cottonwood Slough trails. This could be a most beautiful trail as it hugs the shoreline of Patricia Lake and then crosses the Cottonwood Slough. However, this is a multiuse trail shared primarily with the horses from Pyramid Stables. Thus the trail is dug up and muddy from the horse hooves and covered in horse manure. And if that isn't enough, you will surly gag from the smell of all the manure. If you like hiking through mud and horse manure, then this is the trail for you. Otherwise avoid this trail."
A beautiful place to visit and only a few minutes drive from Jasper. We saw so much wildlife here including black bears twice. It's a peaceful and very tranquil area. You can hire boats on pyramid lake or simply sit in the pontoon and chill. Definitely take bear spray and a camera!
"Two small lakes right inside the Jasper area. This is a great little drive, not far at all from downtown Jasper.. Good areas for a nice day picnic. Easy to get to."
"Worth doing and make sure you have sensible shoes, and mosquito repellent. Some areas on the trail will perhaps be a little challenging for some older people as there are lots of roots sticking up along the trails as well as stones. Lakes really pretty especially the different colours and great photo opportunity. A small suggestion to the parks people would be to perhaps place more signs along the hiking trails as they are not clearly marked and easy to take wrong path and walk further - okay if you do not mind and have the time but it is also up hill. Would recommend."
"Great Lakes to swim in if hot! Good beach at one! Awesome to canoe in. Simple drive with beautiful views. Have seen deer, elk and bear on this road."
"Drove down from jasper towards both these lakes. Wonderful views! Had difficulty finding a parking space.
On route towards the lakes a black bear was next to the road eating berries. Further along we also spotted 4 deer in the woodland close to the road."
Another lovely lake to visit. Great photo opportunities. Access over small wooden bridge near small pyramid of stones.
We actually enjoyed our visit to Pyramid Lake. It was quiet. You could rent boats too. The water was very clear and calm. We enjoyed walking across the lake on a bridge onto a little island with perfect spots for picnicking. The best part was the elk near the boat house. It didn't seem afraid of people and started to eat hanging petunias from the deck. Very funny to watch.
"Choosing the right time of day to visit, if you're a photographer, can be difficult. The reflections on both lakes at certain times of day are beautiful, so deciding when to visit can be difficult. A very pleasant area to walk or hike."
These lakes are absolutely gorgeous and fun and idyllic way to spend half a day in Jasper. We dipped our feet in them and had a lunch picnic there. Lots of beach areas for that. A lot of the locals it looked like came all prepared to spend a day there with floats and everything. Wish we had had the time to do that.
"Loved this place, very calm and it is a nice place for taking the best pictures ever. You have the Patricia Lake with Pyramid mountains just behind it."
"Patricia lake is the first lake you will see and it is beautiful with stunning colour(s), clear water and fantastic mountain scenery.Pyramid lake is different but is also beautiful with the same scenery and with a small island that is connected by a bridge which you can walk across and explore the small island.The lakes are popular for kayaking & swimming.Go at the end of the day, less crowded. 15 minute scenic drive from Jasper"
"A quick drive to Pyramid lake is less than 10 minutes from Jasper. What a beautiful area. Drive all the way around the lake to the end of the road, park and hike out on the island and enjoy the views from different angles. This is a very simple walk and there are many benches to sit, rest and enjoy the view."
The Jasper and Banff areas can be fairly busy and hectic for such scenic areas. The Pyramid and Patricia Lakes are a break from this. We managed to find a spot on the beach with a table where we could set up our picnic and enjoy the scenery. Just what we needed to recharge our batteries so we could continue down the ice fields parkway.
"Take a few hours to get away from the hustle and bustle of Jasper. Just a few minutes drive behind Jasper are two gorgeous lakes. There a good hiking trails, and fewer people. Settle in at one of the beaches, go for a swim, read a book. Loved it."
"We visited both Pyramid and Patricia Lakes, no more than a 5 minute drive from Jasper and each other. Both are extremely beautiful and the reflections we saw in crystal clear water was amazing.We enjoyed a family canoe on Pyramid Lake - everyone must wear a life vest and as thunder storms were expected we were advised of the protocol should a storm start nearby. (An hour costs C$35 or half an hour C$25 per canoe) - good value.Great trails to hike around which give good views of the lakes"
We stayed in Patricia Lake and took an easy walk to Pyramid lake. We were blessed with good weather and both were peaceful and very beautiful. A contrast to Lake Louise which while beautiful was rammed with tourists.
"Great trail # 15, from Jasper to the lakes. Beautiful scenery once there and wonderful amenities once there. Good 1.5 hr. Workout.
Be careful coming back down! It's fast!
Many trails available if you wish to add on when finished this leg"
"Both lakes are really pretty though Patricia Lake is quieter. Doesn't look like there are boat rentals available on Patricia though they are on Pyramid Lake making it busier. Great place to relax, read a book or just enjoy a beautiful lake view."
"These two lakes are only a short drive out of Jasper. Hiking trails are accessible around the lakes. Watch for the ""beaches"", small parking areas available, picnic tables on the beautiful lake side. We saw osprey and bald eagles soaring here. Great place for a sunny afternoon picnic with the family."
Pyramid Lake and environs are a pleasant visit. However the real bonus for us was that on each occasion that we drove up from Jasper (always late in the day) we spotted bears - 6 in three journeys - plus one elk.
"Pyramid lake a beach for every needQuiet picnic beaches fire pits with woodClean outhousesSandy beach perfect for lounging or castlesSpectacular mountains Cool swimable lakeCommercialized area further down to rent canoes, rowboats and paddle boats.We stayed at the quiet secluded beachClear waters Definitely a place to come back to"
It was raining when we took our canoes out on Pyramid Lake but then the sun came out and the magic began. The water was warm and the scenery was breathtaking. The lake is big enough for a few hours of fun but small enough to feel at home. Definitely recommend this lake.
"Beautiful little lakes just a few minutes from the town of Jasper. the mosquitos were terrible at dusk, but that is to be expected."
"Sat for ages here watching the ducks, squirrels and beautiful butterflies. Lovely area, but watch out for potholes on tne road there"
"Go to the beach for swim or rent a boat,go picnic for a day,very good to drive around on the scenic road."
Very easy walk around an island on Pyramid Lake - scenery was amazing - lots of great pics. We also went to the beach here and enjoyed a swim.
My husband often kayak in Pyramid Lake and always enjoy the experience. This past holiday we decided to hike one of the trails by the rental accommodations and greatly enjoyed the walk up the mountainside with the reward of being able to over see the forested area and both lakes.
"Small, off the beaten path high class resort with excellent restaurant, and onsite activities like canoeing and hiking. About 10km or so out of Jasper but well worth the drive! the nicest thing was NO power boats on the lake!"
Either lake is great to canoe or kayak. You can rent these at Lake Patricia Bungalows or at Pyramid Lake. Watch the weather it can turn nasty quickly and you don't want to be on the water!
Pyramid lake is a short drive when visiting Jasper. Pyramid has a beach where children can play and throw stones and there are many other places you can stop beside either Pyramid or Patrica Lake. People were fishing and relaxing in lawn chairs when we arrived. This is a great picnic spot. The Mountain views around the lake have a beautiful reddish color. Definitely worth a visit when in Jasper.
"This is only a short drive out and it was drizzling when we left but stopped when we got there. It was only a short 200 metre walk to the island and even shorter walk around. On a sunny day it would have been gorgeous to sit on one of the many benches and just watch the mountains, but today wasn't one of those days. Plus a bus load of tourists arrived and the noise grew considerably. So the peace news was lost"
"Even though it was a long weekend, when I visited these two lakes, there were pockets of zen for me & by zen, I mean quiet moments to capture the beauty of nature. I think zen was possible due to the inclement weather but there were moments of sunshine, too. I was able to capture some of my most satisfying pics to date. There were canoes, and other watercraft to rent. Lots of kids and awesome adventures from solo travelers to families alike. I will definitely return with loved ones. The pics I used here are from a video I took with my phone from a Pyramid Lake beach. The photos I took with my camera, will hang in my home. Tip: Bring bug spray."
"Beautiful scenery and the chance to soak up the quiet enjoyment of nature's bounties.It also gives an opportunity to see the night sky in all its glory, as it is close to a Dark Sky area. The only thing I would improve is the few lights around the hotel need to be capped to prevent upwards light cast."
"I had know about Pykrete and Project Habakkuk, from my reading addiction and found the project to be fascinating, I totally forgot they built the aircraft carriers here in Jasper. Very cool to see Patricia Lake. I wanted to SUP out to the sunken remains of the project but an afternoon thunderstorm rolled in and Patricia is generally much windier than Pyramid. We took our SUP to Pyramid and had a great time."
"This is a quick drive from town and is very nice, there are huge stands of aspen that made for some great pics, fall must be amazing. The lakes are gorgeous and from Patricia at sunset if the water is still you get some nice reflection shots of pyramid mountain."
a short drive from Jasper takes you to a number of trails and large lakes with mountain views. The lower rating is just because of the other competition.
"Yet another Great Lake in Canada! Pyramid Mountain is actually gorgeous, the colors of the sediment really catch the eye against the glacial fed lake!"
Maybe I just expect more from this area...it is the Rockies! If you want peaceful and tranquility this is for you
Located up in behind Jasper town site it is a great place to visit by walking trail or bikes or a short 6km drive by car. We always visit these two lakes when we are in Jasper. The water is clean and clear and the surrounding mountain views are lovely. there are places to sit and relax or to launch a canoe or kayak to go for a nice paddle. Trails that take you around the lake so a little of everything. At Pyramid lake there is a little island accessible by walking bridge. Also several little sandy beach to enjoy a picnic or swim. The water is fairly warm as the lake is small and shallow. Again greta place to enjoy a canoe or kayak paddle. Bring your own and launch at beach or available to rent at the near by cabins.
This is a great place to go for a drive and there are also lots of walking trails. Take a camera as there are lot of things to take pictures of.
We hired two kayaks on a sunny day and enjoyed this trip very much. There are beaches and picnic sites along the lakes.
"We visited lakes one afternoon while in Jasper. Real nice area around-lots of hiking trails, deers wondering around, groves of birches. Water in the lakes looks pristine and very blue. Not too many people around also."
These lakes are next to each other. Pyramid has a little island in the middle which is connected to the mainland with a small walkway. There was a wedding taking place on the island the day we were there. These are not far from the town itself and are worth a short stopover.
This place was so beautiful and serene. Almost a hidden gem. Our Bed and Breakfast owner recommended this to us. Truly was great.
"we liked the small beaches, rowing the boat in the lake and hiking to the island which is a must! great for quiet day in Jasper to relax"
"Pyramid lake is really beautiful- it's not as flashy as the other emerald green lakes around the park, however the little bridge and island you can walk onto is a really beautiful place to have a picnic or admire the surrounding mountain views- in summer this place is pretty magical with a lot of birch trees and wildflowers blooming everywhere, it's tranquil away from the crows and a great spot to swim in the calm waters or go fishing."
"For the past 2 years my wife and I have gone to Patricia and it's stunning, theres chairs on the dock to just sit and relax and the cabins are great, the older one are outdated but I like the rustic feel. Although I feel like it was over priced for the older cabins. Would go again."
Pyramid was a nice lake - with a bridge out to the island. Very nice views - easy to get to. Patricia was OK - but nothing great.
"These two lakes are just ok, compared to other splendours attractions in Jasper Nation Park.
You can just skip them if you are in tight schedule."
"Both are lovely lakes with a lot of hiking trails. Make sure you drive to the end of the road at Pyramid Lake and walk to the island. It is a wonderful place for a picnic or just to take in the scenery. As others have indicated, take a hiking map, the trails are all numbered and very well marked. The ""lodge"" at Pyramid lake has a small store with drinks and even had hot soup the day we were there."
"If you visit Patricia Lake, stop along the road at the sign for it, then walk down to the lake. I bought a bench from the Park last year and it is there on the east side of the lake, facing Pyramid Mountain. You will love the view! Relax and enjoy!"
"We went early in the morning and it was so quiet, just a few other people and just one canoe in the water. That is a find unto itself. You can rent canoes there and it is not the heavy Lake Louise price. The views are nice but not spectacular. We enjoyed both lakes but I wouldn't say it's a must-see unless you are in Jasper already with some time to explore."
We saw these lakes by taking a hike and looking down at them. Stunning to see and clear enough trails. Do bring a hiking map.
"This is a beautiful spot for relaxing & reflecting on life. On a clear day, it is best to visit these lakes early morning and before the tranquillity is upset by numerous coach loads of visitors. Photography is also best in early morning when the light is superb."
These are very beautiful mountain lakes close to one another. Boats are for hire at Pyramid Lake. There are beaches at both lakes. The lakes are in a quiet area 5 km outside of Jasper.
This is another must visit when in Jasper National Park. There is a trail to Pyramid Island that gives you an amazing view of Pyramid Mountain as well as Whislters Mountain. The beach at Pyramid Lake is a nice place for a picnic. If you want to get a good view of the lake there are a variety of watercraft for rent at the Pyramid Lake Resort.
"Easy to get to, beautiful and relaxing. Enjoy just standing on the shores looking at the surroundings or the reflections on the water. Peacefully walk around the island. Soak up the peace and quiet."
Always drive up to pryamid lake to show visitors... Walk out onto the island... Its very pretty. My first time here i stayed in cabins at pryamid lake. Very over priced and run down - wouldnt recommend them. Not far from jasper townsite - so quick trip.
"We stayed at the Patricia Lake Bungalows so that the lake is just a few minutes away from our cottage. The lake can't be compared with the ""stars"" of the Rockies such as lake louise, moraine lake or peyto lake, but it's quaint and quiet. We love sitting on the dock in late afternoon just to admire the serenity."
"It is quite a pretty lake. You can hike it quite easily, so if you are traveling with young children or just want a real axing causal stroll, then Pyramid Lake fits the bill."
Wow we stayed 45 years ago and again three years ago and this time the cabins have been updated to modern. Great stay quiet and not boat motors. Poor parking if you have multiple cars in group. We were able to park two easily on our site.
"Easy access for hikers or by Car or Motorcycle or Bicycle or horse back rides, The crystal clear and you can rent paddle boats and canoes and have a guided tour."
excellent potential for reflection photos. Wonderful surprise to see a loon family swimming there. a wonder spot to sit and ponder life at
"I guess these are the nearest lakes from Jasper as it took us just a few minutes to reach here from our hotel in Jasper.
Both the lakes are so pretty and were not crowded at all (at the time we went). We had a...More"
"Best seen on a clear sunny windless day, the reflection of Pyramid mountan stereotypes the best if the Rocky Mountains.Deep within Patricia Lake are the remains of a secret weapon from WW2 - a scaled model aircraft carrier fashioned from ice and sawdust - known as Pyrocrete. Thought to be virtually indestructable and unsinkable the full scale carrier was intended to carry up to 400 Aircraft. Costs prevented fruition."
We stayed in the Pyramid Lake Resort and the views of the lake were stunning to wake up to. Would recommend a visit to anyone who is in the Jasper area.
"We called mid morning, there was not a ripple on the lake and it was a perfect mirror of the surrounds. The water was so clear you could see fish and small turtles swimming under the jetty."
"The lakes are only a 10 minute drive from Jasper. They are certainly worth the drive. They are gorgeous and peaceful, far from the maddening busloads of tourists! There is a short/easy walk to the Pyramid Lake island where you will be rewarded with beautiful mountain views. There is a charming lakefront resort at Pyramid Lake. It looked like a bucolic place to stay if you want to be in the peace and quiet of a lovely lake. We really enjoyed Pyramid Lake and highly recommend a trip there if you are in Jasper."
This is a magnificent place with wonderful view of snow clad mountains with great reflections in the lake.
"Had a short drive out to Pyramid lake, it's nice, there r canoes etc. to hire and we saw a guy capsize as soon as he got in his canoe! Not much there just a nice view and peaceful surrounding. Patricia lake only had a lay by which we missed and drove in to the private village by mistake, no view from there so can't comment. On the way back to town we saw a massive elk cross the road ahead and walk past us, awesome!"
"It's no more than a few minutes from Jasper center, so if you have a car, worth the 10 minute drive. Pretty views of the mountains beyond the lakes."
"Pyramid lake is a very short trip from downtown Jasper by vehicle.It can also be reached by a pleasent bike trip or an energetic hike. How ever you travel it is well worth the trip.A favorite spot for photographers ,blue skies,impressive mountain peaks,clear waters make for some great shots.You can rent a canoe or paddle boat ,try some fishing off the dock or just sit and soak up the view.There is also a little bridge to the small island with picnic tables,and more great spots for picture taking!"
Awesome trails. Lots of loops and some great climbs. The views are amazing and you can ride right from your room in Jasper.
"While staying in Jasper I did a morning run up to Pyramid and Patricia Lakes. Follow trail 15 if you are going by foot that runs of Pyramid Lake Road. Its absolutely stunning, Pyramid Island which is accessible by bridge is amazing!"
"Don't think everyone knows about these lakes, but they are stunning, would like to have visited for longer but too much to see in this area to cram into two days. Very quiet and still are and not too many tourists. Would recommend."
This is another scenic lake near Jasper. The views of area and mountains are beautiful and peaceful to walk on the island at lake. You may not want to miss it.
Just a short drive from Jasper these lakes are a perfect place for a relaxing stroll in the awesome scenery of the national park. Not far away is Johnson's Lake which is even quieter and has a small sandy beach area and is ideal for children.
Visited here at 8pm. Peaceful and pretty. Walked across the short bridge to the island. Nice view from here. About 10 minute drive from Jasper downtown.
"We spent about an hour in this area just driving by and getting out of the car for a few minutes to enjoy both lakes. We enjoyed Pyramid Island and the gorgeous views of Pyramid Mountain. Pyramid mountain is one of the few with rich colors, especially noticeable in the morning to mid afternoon while the sun is shining directly on it. The blue waters of the lakes were gorgeous. Nice place to hike, bike or do water activities."
"If you have a car and want to see some beauty in Jasper only a short drive away, visit these 2 lakes. You can also hike there from Jasper if you are an avid hiker. You can rent a boat on Pyramid lake, evenings are magical...listen to the call of the loon and take in the beauty of this place!"
The lake was beautiful and quiet yet is spoke to my soul. On my visit it rained for a minute and the wind whistled tunes carried by the brisk Rocky Mountain air.
Have been here in winter and much prefer the atmosphere of the island. Again spectacular views with the majesty of the Rockies. We did see a deer on route.
"We stayed one night at Patricia Lake Bungalows and couldn't be happier. The cabin was clean, updated, and the grounds were well taken care of. Patricia Lake itself is quite pretty. We took a row boat out in the morning and had the lake to ourselves. Staff is very friendly and helpful. Will definitely stay here again!"
Both Pyramid and Patricia Lakes are often missed by visitors to the park as they are up and behind the town of Jasper. Both locations are beautiful and great locations to go canoeing or kayaking.
"Apart from their obvious attractiveness and great scenery, this area offers some good, non-taxing hikes over various lengths. We chose the ""Overlooking Trail"" which had some amazing views as it traversed the ridge that overlooks the lakes (Route 2b)."
our tour director took us to pyramid mountain and lake and it was absolutely breathtaking. It was a gorgeous day and the sun reflecting on the water was magical. A must visit.
My husband and I rode out to both lakes just after arriving in Jasper and setting up at Whistler's Campground. The lakes are so peaceful and lovely. There's a small island at Pyramid Lake accessible by a short footbridge. We just sat and took in the beautiful views of the lakes and Pyramid Mountain behind them.
"We did a hike at the end of the road to pyramid lake. On the top of the mountain, we had a good view of town of Jasper and lakes nearby. The view was great."
"beautiful Lakes and so close together! Both lakes are just a short drive from Jasper Town Site and well worth the drive! Drive past Patricia Lake, go a little further to Pyramid Lake and drive all the way around to the far side of Pyramid Lake and you will see a little path to a bridge. Cross the bridge to Pyramid Island and explore! Lots of nice little benches and photo spots and all for free! Beautiful views of the Lake and surrounding mountains. On the way back don't forget to stop at Patricia Lake as well, so pretty!"
"We where at Pyramid lake for dinner. The food is what you make yourself, but the dinnerspot is the best in the world.Our campground didn't allow a campfire at our spot, so why arrive early?We decided to park our RV at the shore. Prepared a wunderfull diner and sat at the most wunderfull dinersite you can imagine. Some canoes came by, some kids running thriugh the shallow water, a bird toke care of the music, what do you need more?"
Walked trail out of Jasper and planned route to incorporate the two lakes. Pleasant scenery but not a wow factor.
"Not far out from Jasper, we took a drive one evening. Stopping at Patrica lake for a photo opportunity. On to pyramid lake. There are a number of parking places and picnic benches on the beach here. The Pyramid lake resort has a restaurant and place to hire canoes etc. Pyramid island is just a bit further on and lovely to have a great walk around. You can easily fit this in. Take flask of coffee and chill out."
"Visit early to see native species of deer
Red squirrels supping sap from the trees, lake trout rising to lacewings. Visit late to see Pyramid mountain standing majestically with its fools gold reflecting the sun."
The drive is not far out of Jasper and it was an easy afternoon stroll and very quaint to see. Also found a riding stable on the way out and we went riding the next day.
"These were two of the most beautiful lakes we visited during our three trip around BC and Alberta. The first time we visited was on a overcast, windy day. The lakes were still lovely and the surroundings spectaular and atmospheric, bit it was the next morning when we visited very early without other people and in beautiful calm and sunny conditions that the lakes really came to life. The reflections are stunning and make for some incredible photographs. Whilst Pyramid Lake with Pyramid mountain in the background looks amazing, we preferred Patricia for the beautiful blue colour of the water and the stunning reflections of the surrounding trees and mountains. Definitely look to spend some time here when you visit Jasper."
"The beauty of these lakes comes from the stillness of the water in this area, and the reflections that come from that same water. Natural beauty at its finest."
"Definitely take the few minute drive from Jasper out to see Pyramid Lake and island. Lots of walking paths, and camping places."
Had a lovely afternoon at the lakes. Stunning views of lake and mountain with snowy peaks. Would have been lovely to have taken a picnic
I already wrote my review about the majestic Pyramid. This feedback is solely about Patricia Lake. There were lots of Mosquitos. The lake was boring. Nothing spectacular. Well you can stop by to rest your feet from driving but it's not worth it. There was nothing much to see. Didn't bother taking pictures too.
"Visited in November but as long as you have good winter gear you will be fine. Well worth the short windy drive as its just breathtaking, You will not be disappointed"
Such natural beauty needs to be seen through eyes and not solely through camera lenses. Get your boots on and make the effort to walk to these crystal clear lakes. The awe inspiring Pyramid Mountain dominates the background for both lakes. Wonderful.
We went there first thing in the morning and there was only our small bus group there. The day was bright and sunny and the reflection into pyramid lake was perfect. It was gorgeous. I don't think it would be the same with crowds there do try and get there early or late. That way you can hear the birds and the silence.
Best time to take photos are in the morning when the winds aren't blowing so you can get crystal clear reflections off the lake waters of the beautiful trees and large mountains reflecting off. Just get out of the car and you're there!
"We had a short visit at these lakes, they were absolutely stunning, we stayed till sunset. Next time we visit Jasper, we'll try to stay around this area"
"We weren't expecting the lakes to be so beautiful. While at Patricia lake we experienced the company of a group of Elk at the end of the lake walking through. They then wandered up the road where our car was parked and just walked by us. The lake is so peaceful and against a beautiful mountain with the mirror image displayed in the lake, it was breathtaking."
"Went there based on reviews. If you were in Jasper and wanted a relaxing afternoon, do drive over and enjoy. The views were good and with nice weather to match."
My friends and I mountain biked to pyramid lake from Jasper and it was a great reward! The views are stunning. We hired a canoe for half an hour on the lake which was fun too!
"Pyramid Lake is really pretty with a fantastic mountain back drop. There is an 'island', which is accessible via a bridge for a short woodland walk. Stop off for a photo at Patricia Lake on the way. There's an interesting plaque here relating to secret tests on the lake carried out in World War II on ships made of ice! Allow 30 minutes for Pyramid Lake and a walk on the island and a short photo stop at Patricia Lake."
"the 2 lakes are just so pretty, one off them you can walk out to a small island, the nature is just so beautiful from the beaten track."
Close to town and tons of walking/hiking trails. Kayaking and canoeing. Great views of the mountains.
"We decided to drive to the Pyramid and Patricia Lakes after staying at the Fairmount Jasper Hotel as it was only a short drive away. The lakes are located in Jasper National Park near the town of Jasper. Patricia Lake was evidently named after Princess Patricia of Connaught, a granddaughter of Queen Victoria. The Lakes are very close to each other which makes it handy for sightseeing within the area. Both lakes are beautiful during the summer months there are plenty of activities including bird watching, canoeing, hiking, sightseeing, wind surfing, horseback riding, scuba diving and fishing.During the winter months the snow covered recreation trails in the region become cross country ski routes and the frozen lake transforms into a skating rink.There is also a well maintained easy 5 kilometre loop trail around the lake for those who enjoy a hike."
We stayed by Patricia Lake and adored our time on the lake. It is so quiet and beautiful. Taking a kayak or canoe would be ideal. All the angles on the lake have stunning views. The drive down to Pyramid lake is short and also very pretty. Pyramid Lake has sandy beaches. I would go back in a heart beat.
"If you want to slow down, let go of stress and remember what life has to offer then spend a day visiting these lakes. Each beautiful and easy to access. There are lovely walks through the forest around them, benches to sit and observe the wildlife on the lake, you will have your spirits lifted!"
We have visited Jasper many times. Every time we go there we spend time at Patricia and Pyramid Lakes. Both are beautiful. We especially like walking on the bridge to the little island in Pyramid Lake. There are several signs describing interesting facts about the Lake. On the west shore of Patricia Lake there is an interesting small sandy beach.I enthusiasticlally recommend a visit to the lakes!
These lakes are gorgeous. Wanted to just sit on the bench at Patricia Lake and spend the day. Wish we could have. Definitely a don't miss attraction in Jasper !!
"This is one thing everyone must do, if they're in the Jasper area. The island on Pyramid Lake is a great place to relax and is accessible whatever your degree of mobility might be. For those keen on walking and breath-taking views, take path no. 2 and above where it intersects with no. 15, there's a sunny open bank, with quite possibly the best view in the Rockies."
Beautiful setting for a quiet stroll in the wilderness. Kids loved the adventure of crossing a bridge to an island. We have been to the Jasper area many times and for some reason missed this spot completely.
"It's a great ride for motorcycles and there some nice lake views. Once you're up there you can eat drink or hire a paddle boat kayak or probable a canoe too. I believe you can learn to dive up there with PADI certifications and check out the history of the ""secret"" British WWII wood and ice boat that was eventually scuttled and is still in the lake. I imagine the ice has melted. Mind at this time of year the water is still VERY cold."
"We stayed at the Pyramid Lake resort during our last visit there, which is certainly a convenient choice for this idyllic mountain lake. It's a great spot to look for deer, elk and moose, and the dock has various water craft available for rental, from kayaks to pedalboats. You can also hike or drive around the lake edge, go for a swim do horseback trips in summer, and during the winter, there's cross country skiing, snowshoes, etc. My first choice, however, is just to sit out on the dock and enjoy the tranquil scene and fresh mountain air."
We had a great time canoeing around Pyramid lake! There is a little island accessed via a bridge too with seats and a great area for a pic-nic. The mountain range in the background is phenomenal!
"We found lots of elk in this area and were lucky enough to stand listening to wolves howl in the hills, well worth a visit"
"Everyone is interested in the tourist's money. Then you come to Pyramid Lake. It is a small lake with a small island in it. At no cost you can walk across a bridge and enjoy scenery, reflections, bird calls, and places to just sit and relax. It is a good place to meditate and think about God's wonderful creation. Thanks to those who have made it nice without charging to go there."
A very short drive from jasper town and both lakes are lovely. Fun walking out to the small island at pyramid lake with good views of pyramid mountain. Saw lots of wildlife.
"We didnt know about Pyramid Lakes and were lucky a staff member suggested we take the short drive to see this beautiful spot. So glad we did, upon comining around the corner the first thing you see is a beautiful lake and lodge. You can park and there is sitting around the lake and relax, there are walking trails, a place to buy ice cream or you can eat at the lodge. We followed the road around and came to the beautiful island called ""Pytamid Island"". We walked out to the island and it is beautiful, plenty of people having picnics, as there are table set up and chairs and benches all around the island. The views are beautiful and you can continue down the road park and again there are walking trails.This is worth the short drive and a nice relaxing place once you arrive."
We were leaving Jasper and were told we must see the Pyramid and Patricia lakes. I'm glad we made time for it. It was peaceful and scenic and we were able to take many beautiful pictures.
"If you are in Jasper, these lakes are a must and should never be missed. You can have a family picnic and enjoy the beautiful scenery of the lake and mountains altogether. Very spectacular."
"We stayed at Patricia Lake Bungalows so we were able to visit Patricia Lake everyday. It was peaceful. However, we found Pyramid Lake much better. The view of Pyramid Mountain was much more grandeur from Pyramid Lake than Patricia Lake. We enjoyed most of our breakfasts in Jasper at Pyramid Lake Resort Restaurant so we enjoy the serenity and tranquility of Pyramid Lake and its surroundings every morning. If you are here early morning, the lake is very calm. Great photo opportunities. If you drive further from the resort, you get to a bridge and a little island. The road condition to the resort and island is bumpy. We saw many elks here."
"So glad we could go see these two lakes. Right there by the city, and so lovely and quiet! I Recommend!!"
First time up to Pyramid Lake. Perfect spot for family and panorama photos. Go to the end of the island and get a family shot in front of Pyramid Mountain.
Hiked at Pyramid Lake for a bit. Another one of the many great hiking areas around Jasper. We walked up one of the trails and found some red chairs where we could sit and have our lunch while we enjoyed the view. We also walked across to the Island. What a great area for a family picnic.
Lake Patricia is approx 7 km's from Jasper and well worth a visit.There are canoe's for hire and you can go on a horseback ride as well as take a stroll along the beautiful lake.At Pyramid Lake you can walk across the bridge to the island where there are lots f squirrels. Also great walking trails from here. be sure to take your camera as lots of photo opportunities.
Loved this part of th tour and seeing the mountains reflecting in the lake. Learning about the fire roads and the history. Well worth a visit anytime of the year but I think summer it will be quite popular with lots of activities on the lakes.
Stayed there last summer and it was great. The location has great hiking trails right outside your room. We liked it there so much we are getting married there this summer.
"The scenery at Pyramid lake is beautiful. The island on Pyramid is accessable by a walkway. On the island there are a few picknik tables that are sheltered by some trees and one shelter that was first built in 1933. Short walk to the water, great place to bring family."
"Pyramid Lake and Pyramid Island are beautiful. The kids enjoyed scampering around Pyramid Island, which is accessible by a sturdy footbridge.The views from the island are beautiful, and I especially enjoyed the interpretative signs they had all around the island. A must-do in Jasper."
Great hiking trails and views of both lakes. We stayed at the Pyramid Lake Resort and often walked out to the dock to admire the views. Take a stroll out to Pyramid Island as well and read about the history there. Makes for some great pictures as well.
Just visited today with the family and as always incredible view of probabley my most favorite mountain in Jasper
Very good place to relax with family members! Enjoy the sunrise and sunset if you could get up early or stay a little later till everyone leaves. It's beautiful especially when the mountains have snow on top of them.
Both of these Lakes offer stunning photographic locations as well as peaceful spots to relax and perhaps enjoy a picnic. You will quite often see Elk nearby as well.
We got there early in the morning. We were the only people there. The views are unbelievable beautiful. It is quiet and relaxing. We wanted to stay there and enjoy for hours. The mountain and woods have perfect reflection on the lake. See pictures.
"When travelling to chalet, mountain had a lightning strike, evacuating resort, blew off the trees on top of mountain"
"We took a drive here (you will need a car unless you are at the one and only hotel in this area) to start out our day. We walked around taking photos, watching the weather change from damp and dark to sunny and beautiful. The areas are well maintained with no trash about, and lightly traveled while we were there. You can easily take photos without other visitors in them. The water was pretty cold already! But the views were different from every angle. Great visit"
"A beautiful peaceful amazing places visit. A walk, fishing, picnic, swimming it's got it all. The fresh air smell cold mountain waters and awesome mountains all around."
We did a loop of trail 8 and 6 working out to be about a 6km loop. Thanks to rain earlier in the week the snow was crunchy so not ideal for snow shoeing. The loop is easy to moderate.
"As with most spots within Jasper this spot provided the sights. Would be a perfect spot for a romantic picnic. Although I am not a fan of bridges, I made it across this one alive"
Amazing views. Went in winter and was silent and to over look over all mountains was amazing. Would go back.
"We love the trails its simply beautiful !!!! We even saw the bear when we were having picnic. Also you can swim in the lakes they are so clean!!
I would love to be back soon."
"We just went for a quick walk at Pyramid lake - which is more photogenic. We went early in the morning looking for wildlife, but didn't encounter any at the lakes, but were only there for a short time. Pyramid lake is stunning."
Make a detour on your way to visit the Rockies in Canada. Breathtaking views of the Patricia Lake is worth the trip.
I don't know what others are saying about these lakes not being Emerald green...I have the photos to prove otherwise....the lakes are beautiful and relaxing! Not a lot of people when we went and was great to just hand out and relax. Kids loved skipping rocks and this summer we are hoping to go out boating and visit the WWII dive site!
Grear if your looking for a nice quiet place with a great scenery for going skating or just walking from downtown
"It was nearly into October when I took my friend to visit Pyramid &Patricia lakes, there was a warning posted-cougars had been seen in the area, so we were on our guard. The mirage of the mountains in the very clear water was amazing, but it was a very cold day, so it was a quicker than usual visit"
Both Pyramid and Patricia offers specular views especially of Pyramid mountain. Lots of hiking and horse back riding in the summer. Please note Patricia is closed in the winter. Pyramid has a great restaurant that is open peak hours . Cross country and hiking trails open in the winter along with skating in the lake.
"lovely walks up though wooded area to get to the lakes, saw a black bear feeding on berries a few metres from the foot path, walked by very quietly! you can hire a rowing boat lakeside if you want more exercise."
"Cross-country ski trails are great! Besides, it's a great place to spend great time with family in winter with hockey rink, skating, skiing, fire place and horse rides offered right on the frozen lake surrounded by mountain greatness."
"We discovered Pyramid Lake because we were looking for an outing from Jasper that is close by and manageable in a short span of time. We had originally planned to go to Maligne Lake but ran out of time to do it.And much to our surprise, Pyramid Lake offered us an unforgettable experience that was one of the highlights of our trips. It was at the end of September, late morning when we arrived and basically had the place to ourselves. The surface of the lake was quiet and mirrored the surrounding mountains. We walked onto the little island and couldn't stop taking pictures.Wonderful place to get away from the crowds and enjoy the stunning landscape."
Was a lovely morning outing to Pyramid mountain. We took a taxi from town as its a steep climb to the lake. It cost $20. The lake was completely frozen so we walked along it to the island. It was peaceful with no too many people around. We then walked back to Jasper following the trail. It was a pleasant walk downhill mostly and was really well sign posted.
"The reviews and books I read prior to going all recommended going here for sunrise photography. My situation did not accommodate a sunrise trip up, but we did go at dusk. Make sure you go at dusk if you area photo bug! Fabulous!"
"Just basic lakes like you see in the mountains in a lot of other places. Nothing special compared to some of the beautiful lakes in Jasper-Banff. No emerald green, etc."
"Lakes were frozen and great for skating on, we brought snowshoes for the hiking trails but got along just fine without needing."
We enjoy driving around the Lakes and getting out to walk along the shores. There are little boats for rent.
Bit cold but great to enjoy the night sky. I believe that the hotel at pyramid lake must turn down a little bit the night light so you can enjoy more the view
I don't know about you but I usually wouldn't be excited by Lakes but they're all different in the Rockies. They are surrounded by stunning views and the lakes have different colours to what I am used to seeing in Australia. The photos you will get here are amazing - try and get some panoramic shots if possible.
"if you like mountains and lakes this area has it all !
get there, hike bike or car , you can do it anyway you like."
What a great nature walk. Pyramid mountain is such a awesome sight. This coupled with a crystal clear lake makes for a good day out.
10 minutes drive from Jasper. Grab a coffee at Tim Hortons and head to Jasper Lake. Sit on a bench on the pier at Patricia Lake and enjoy the views. Perhaps you will see the Red-knecked Grebes. Drive onto Pyramid Lake and have a walk at least to the head of the lake for fantastic views back over the mounts. Don't forget to stop at Cottonwood Slough on the way back for more photo opportunities
I had the chance to stop there at the beginning of a winter wildlife discovery tour with Sundog and it was amazing they have great spots to take pictures and a pedestrian bridge over Pyramid lake to see more of it!
Drove up from jasper village takes 10 mon lots of photo ops the island itself is nice and well respected by those visiting id love to come back in early fall must be amazing
"Check it out early morning or late at night under the night sky. Such a beautiful and calm place. If you do it early morning, you beat the crowds but get ready for chilly weather."
We spent a couple of enjoyable hours on a rented paddle boat on Pyramid Lake. The scenery is spectacular. We could have spent many more hours on the lake admiring the view and the Loons. D
Visited the island pathway. Great views for pictures and quiet place to enjoy the surrounding nature.
"Easy to go, just 15 mins drive from Jasper town. We went there in the evening, it's a peaceful and quiet place."
"A short drive (15 minutes) out of Jasper gets you to Pyramid and Patricia lakes. We went about 8.30am. Pyramid Lake was as calm as it could be, not a ripple which gave a great reflection in the water of Pyramid Mountain. The walk across the footbridge to Pyramid island is worth the time. The peace and quiet was such a contrast to the busy tourism we had been experiencing. Patricia lake has its place in history with the testing of an 'ice ship' during WW2 (Project Habbakuk), though there is nothing to see now (unless you are a scuba diver). A couple of nice lakes to visit if time allows."
"This was a short drive from downtown Jasper to very pretty lakes, although the road condition was a little rough with potholes. We stopped at Pyramid Lake as we wanted to walk to the island (not much parking) Even during off season the island was very popular. There was an area with a restaurant, but it was closed mid day which was a disappointment."
"Nice little drive, just a few kilometers from town. You could walk the trails that go all the way or just hop in the car and drive. Both lakes are very pretty but you really need to check out pyramid island, which is named after Pyramid mountain."
The color of the lakes in this area are so cool- so blue from the rock flour! Lots of short walking trails around both- good for a stroll after supper!
"We visited these. lakes almost asan aafterthought, at the end of a day's sight-seeing, but they were certainly worth the short drive from jasper. Amazing panoramic views of the mountain range, and an unusual pontoon walk out to the island on Pyramid"
"Quiet & Pristine, this lake is amazing beautiful! Truly a gift from God. I couldn't stop taking pics!"
"Rented a kayak and relaxed on the Pyramid lake, a kidney-shaped lake in Jasper National Park. Found a woody island which lead us to have a later walk around the beautiful place and enjoy the water and sunset."
Sat out on the bench's and took in the views. Not full of tourists. Walked on the path's and just enjoyed nature.
"it's good but it's not so good. just one among many lakes
but you can reach the island in lake..it would be good."
The reflections on these lakes on a clear day are breathtaking. You can't stop taking pictures because it is surreal. Please don't pass up the opportunity.
These lakes are just divine! Right outside of the beautiful city of Jasper and surrounded by Mountains and National Park. So picturesque! Worth the trip
"These glacial fed bodies of water have such clarity that they hold a surprise: astounding reflections of Pyramid Mountain, named for the pyramid-shaped peak. Our tour group visited on a drizzly September morning, so views of distant mountains was restricted, and we limited the amount of time enjoying these placid waters. I can only imagine, given photos of the spectacular views, how the reflection of Pyramid Mountain would appear on a sunny day."
Very peaceful and serene! We did a bit of fishing off of the shore! Nice beach area! You are surrounded by mountains. Definitely worth going and checking out. Only about 10 minutes from Jasper!
"Just above and to the north of Jasper, just a short drive out of town. Nice setting, especially Pyramid lake with Colourful Pyramid Mountain to the north side of the lake. Good place for a short walk."
What a beautiful serene place!! Could have just sat here all day taking in the beauty and serenity of this lake.
"Pyramid lake great for sunrise if your a photographer , the colours on the mountains were awesome, but be patient for it to happen"
"Do make the short drive up to the Pyramid and Patricia Lakes. Only fifteen minutes from Jasper and beautiful small lakes, kayaks as well as canoes available for rent."
"Patricia lake is the most beautiful lake I saw in Japser. It's small, but the hidden location guarantee its privacy. We took the Patricia lake resorts entrance to the dock, and shocked by how beautiful the view was. The lake looks like a Mirror with crystal blue water. We took some very nice pictures of this lake. Pyramid lake is nearby. It's bigger , and beautiful too. But I prefer pyramid lake as it seems more quiet and private."
"We found a small beach on the south side of Pyramid Lake. A day-use area, it is a very peaceful and relaxing place. You can plan to spend the whole day or a picnic here and soak up the scenery."
"So quiet and peaceful, this is what a true national park should feel like. There weren't heaps of motorised boats ripping around. It was just us and nature."
"Fabulous views ,well worth a visit when in the area. You cannot improve on raw nature and luckily there have been no attempts to do so here."
So sad that the cabins at Patricia Lake was full and the Lodge at Pyramid din't meet our needs because the suite was not handi-cap accessable but the place looked awesome.
We went looking for a bear which is a short drive outside of Jasper. We came across some large elk along side the road.
"Both these lakes are very close to Jasper and if you have a spare moment they are not far to visit. Both lakes have resorts on their shores. Pyramid Lake in particular had holiday makers on the shore and in the water. Both lakes are relatively small with pretty mountain views and would be good places for a picnic. If you are short of time, I think there are other sites that you would be better concentrating on."
Stopped at the lodge at Pyramid lake so had good views of Pyramid lake. Plenty of wild life around. Boat rental if you want to cruise the lake. Lovely walks around the area. Only short distance between the lakes
"We went to both Pyramid and Patricia Lakes. They are about 5-10 mins apart. Pyramid Lake is open to all and was secluded. On the other hand, Patricia Lakes was a gated community so we tried going in there but the directions were confusing so just left from there without making more effort."
Nearing the end of our visit to the Rockies and still no Elk so imagine our delight when we decided on a early morning visit to these lakes to fill time before the Sky tram opened at 10:00am. The Elks were in the rutting season and we saw 3 going antler to antler beside the road. We filmed from a safe distance before they headed back into the wooded area.
"Both Pyramid & Patricia lakes are stunningly beautiful. There is always wildlife around there, from caribou to bears. You can rent canoes, kayaks & even mountain bikes at the Pyramid Lake Resort to really take it all in. Absolutely wonderful."
"These lakes have great views as others have described, but why not go a little further? Take the short trail from the car park at the end of Pyramid Lake, (marked on sign). After a steady but not too taxing climb your reward will be fantastic views over Jasper and the mountains. Its downhill all the way back!"
"Love love love these lakes, especially walking to Pyramid island and the cute little bridge crossing over, spectacular views and non stop kodak moments all around especially if the lake is calm!"
"These two lakes are great spots to get back to nature and enjoy the scenery and, if possible, stay at one of the resorts for some real serenity. We recently drove out here and took some time to stroll around. Even on a cloudy day like we had it is lovely. Be sure to go for the short walk out onto Pyramid Island for a great view of both the lake and Pyramid Mountain"
"My husband and I, with 51 other seniors stopped at Pyramid and Patricia Lakes. We took some awesome pictures. As we traveled the Canadian Rockies, it only got better and better. What did we love the most? Oh please, don't make us choose. We took approximately 1000 pictures. Does that tell you something? However, we enjoyed Pyramid Lake a little more so than Patricia Lake because of the picturesque uniqueness. Pyramid has a bridge and a little island that photographs wonderfully. The area is ideal for hiking, so peaceful. It is a nice easy walk.We enjoyed every minute of it. A must-see."
"This was a lovely, relaxing walk at and around the lake. One got the sense that the tourists were left behind and you had reached a quiet place of considerable beauty, the kind of place that local people might go to, to get away from the touristic focus of the townsite."
"Although it was drizzling rain, the views around both lakes were so beautiful. Low level cloud prevented us from seeing the surrounding snow capped peaks. Magnificent views."
"Visited these sister lakes for a star gazing night. Amazing......stars,stars everywhere. We got there around 9 and let our eyes aclamate by 10:30 it was remarkable... We layed on the pedestrian bridge in Pryamid lake for the best view of the sky"
"Lovely, picturesque lakes. So serene?? Take a canoe out and wallow in the tranquility of this awesome gift from nature!"
Because it was off season there is nothing to review other than both lakes are beautiful with the start of the fall colors showing .
"Great way to spend the day, exploring, having a picnic, enjoying the view. These two lakes are very beautiful, cold and clear, a must see!"
Pyramid lake is the bigger of the 2 and worth a visit with a nice short walk around Pyramid island. Patricia Lake is on the way to Pyramid so worth a quick look but only real interest is the information about the unsinkable aircraft carrier.
"Very relaxing, great views, lots of wildlife and awesome bars downtown with incredible food. Took the tram to top of The Whistlers Mountains. Well worth the trip and the 1.4 km hike to the summit."
Both Pyramid and Patricia Lakes are well worth a visit. They offer good opportunities for walks and photography. Taking a picnic would be a great idea.
A picture stop well worth the time. On a half day bus trip so not much time to explore. The weather was overcast so could not see Pyramid Rock
Just a short hop out of town defiantly worth the trip the views we magical and the lakes were pristine! We took tons of photos and enjoyed hiking around.
Loved these lakes. Take your time here. Lovely walks. Awesome place to see wildlife. Go early in the morning or late afternoon to beat the crowds
Pyramid lake is a beautiful place but it is a little bit gloomy for me. It was windy and cold when we went there so there was not a lot of people at that time. The lake itself is breathtaking but quite a bit of mosquitos. Make sure to bring your mosquito lotion... Patricia lake is awesome and the resort around it is lovely. I'd love to stay there in my next trip to Jasper...
"Lodge accommodation was clean if dark. The on site restaurant was a bit pretentious in its menu. The setting, however is gentle peaceful and relaxing"
"Pyramid lake is a very beautiful place, go over to the little island and have a wander round it is very peaceful, go early in the morning , plenty of wildlife to see aswell."
We drove around to the day use area on Pyramid Lake. There are picnic tables on a sandy beach. It was a great spot to stop with our 8 year old son whose favorite part of the day was building a sand castle. The view is very pretty and there was a loon splashing around the lake. I wish we'd had a canoe or at least a dingy. The water was very calm and clear. It's a nice little side trip if you have time.
"These were our first sites in Jasper our first morning after arriving. Very peaceful and quiet, such beautiful lakes. Not the most amazing sites in Jasper, but a really great way to start out the morning."
"Nothing special about Patricia Lake.
Pyramid lake is great though thanks to the Pyramid mounntain in front of the lake.
Great colors of the mountain.
You can hire boats to row and you can also visit the island of the lake"
"if the weather is clear you can get some amazing pics here... and if its warm enough to take a canoe out, that would be an enjoyable experience!"
"Beautiful, peaceful lake reflecting the colorful Pyramid Mountain. Only drawback was when the tour bus pulled up and our quiet wa briefly disrupted. Less than 10 minutes from center of Jasper."
Breathtaking views of lakes and mountains. Boat rentals available. Beautiful looking cottages for rent. And fine dining available. Unfortunately the food was not good. Two of the three of us ordered fish and chips. Took forever to get our meals even though there were hardly any people there....45 min. The fish looked good but once we opened it we realized that the fish was FROZEN inside.
We drove a short ways north of Jasper and stopped at the hotel there which has a lovely view of the lake and mountains. Although we did not have a meal there the atmosphere was lovely and it would likely be a great place for lunch of dinner.Canoes are available for rent on the lake and they cater to wedding parties.
"Pyramid Lake in Jasper National Park, Alberta, Canada. rests at the foot of Pyramid Mountain, a natural landmark that overlooks the town of Jasper. The lake is home to Project Habbakuk which was a top secret World War II project that was conceived in Great Britain in 1942 by Mr. Geoffrey Pyke, a scientific advisor to Lord Mountbatten. He suggested that ships could be made of ice. After the sinking of the Titanic in 1912, an international ice patrol had tried to destroy icebergs. The discovery that glacial ice was virtually indestructible gave Pyke his idea to build floating airfields of ice. This is one of Jaspers best kept secrets for the more advanced scuba diver. Diving the Habbakuk takes a little more effort than most of the diver friendly & very easily accessible Jasper lakes due to the logistics of getting to its location in Patricia Lake. The actual wreckage lies on the south shore towards the far west end of the lake, this is a cold water dive (dry suit). There are also several picnic sites are established on the shores of the lake, as well as boat ramps. Pyramid Lake is connected by hiking trails to the town of Jasper."
The drive to the lakes was average it was raining so we could not walk along the lake but the surrounding mountains and the low clouds added to the beauty of both the lakes
"This is a very beautiful area of Jasper. Take time to explore both lakes and the little island off Pyramid Lake. The views of the mountains surrounding the lakes are beautiful. There are several hiking, mountain biking and horseback riding trails near these two lakes. We stopped there on the last day of our vacation and wished we would have had more time to spend near these lakes. You can rent bikes in the town of Jasper and ride the trails near the lakes - the views are amazing."
"Pyramid lake is peaceful and beautiful. Patricia lake has a resort and you can take a canoe out onto the water.
My favorite of the two was Pyramid lake because it was quiet, beautiful, and not as busy as Patrica Lake."
Ok lakes but there are certainly much better lakes in the area with turquoise water and such. The best part is some nights you can get the best view of the northern lights from here.
Beautiful place to visit or stay at Patricial Lake Bungalows. Quiet and relaxing. Go an visit the memorial to Patricia Lakes World War 2 mission and the effort that went into completeing this secret mission. Use the GypSy app for Jasper on your phone for the best tour and history guide.
"Very picturesque lakes surrounded by mountains. We spent a couple of hours here walking and out on the lake in a paddle boat. There was a lot of people about so we didn't find it very peaceful. It is pretty so if you are Jasper with an hour or two to kill, worth the visit."
"A quiet and serene lake setting with beautiful cottages/cabins. This was our best stay of our Banff, Lake Louise, Jasper trip!! We will be sure to go back and will certainly spend more time the here on our next visit!"
Pyramid Lake is a good spot to stop it is very relaxing watching people canoeing. It is just a short walk to the edge and there are a few places to stop and enjoy the view. Patricia Lake is also easily accessed and there was a wooden chair on the edge to stop and enjoy the view. The colours of this lake vary from blue to green and the edge is crystal clear
"Pyramid and Patricia lakes were both beautiful and accomodating for families. With having no access to beach or fishing, the surrounding areas we checked out were very beautiful. We found a few beaches that were good for families and the wildlife was fantastic. We got 5 ft away from Elk and Mountain goats! We also saw a field full of Cariboo. Scenery was breathtaking as well and got many nice pictures!"
"If you are lucky enough to visit Pyramid Lake in particular when the water is dead calm, you'll be treated to some spectacular reflections of the mountains in the water. Here you can rent canoes or paddle boats and chill out on the lake. Highly recommended."
"We stayed on Patricia Lake But we actually went to Pyramid for kayaking (renting at the Pyramid Lake Lodge is easy) and to explore the ""island."" We went multiple times and my favorite time was at night. Absolutely lovely and peaceful and few to little crowds. We also spotted wildlife along Pyramid Lake Road. Honestly, it was a highlight of Jasper."
"Beautiful lake to visit especially across the wooden bridge.There were multiple spots to take iconic pictures. Not too much to see on the island. A nice serene place where one can reflect and truly appreciate nature at it's finest.When we visited, the island was being worked on. There was periodic loud noises which punctuated the tranquil lake. overall: A beautiful place to visit."
Both of these lakes are very lovely and easy to access. One particularly nice spot is the small island in Pyramid lake. Access is provided via a pedestrian bridge. Nice trail and spectacular views from the island.
"Completely gorgeous experience - the scale and the beauty have to be experienced first hand. Just take your time to wander around, hire a boat and let yourself go where the tide takes you."
"Lovely place to drive to. Walked out to the island, and had lovely views of the mountains. Not far out of town."
"If you want to add some more wonderful scenery to your photo album and bask in the magnificent tranquility of The Rockies the just follow Pyramid Lake Road from the centre of Jasper and you will find it.The road is windy, in parts, and has some good lengths with no shoulder but drive carefully, max 40 kmh, and you will have absolutely no problems.Walk around Pyramid Island, it is a flat 600m trail around the entire island, and you will have great photo ops and, keep your eyes peeled on the ground as you are bound to see plenty of little chipmunks scuttling around.Super spot :)"
"Lovely place, has been somewhat restored. Can rent boats. Trails out to benches, tranquil, gorgeous."
"Two small lakes just outside of Jasper with nice views of the surrounding mountain views. There are no powered boats other than electric, so they are quiet and clean. Horseback riding is available close by for meandering through the forests."
"Whenever we go to Jasper, we always drive up to the lakes and go for a walk on the island. It's a gorgeous part of the world, and even though many people are strolling around on the pathways and the island, it somehow still feels isolated (not in a bad way) and relaxing. We were here on Tuesday and saw a grizzly on our way down the hill to town. Always lots to explore."
Peaceful location close to town. Offers fantastic views towards the mountains. I particularly loved the island beyond the resort for a picnic of early evening sunset viewing. Absolutely beautiful. Apart from locals there are very few tourists. We saw a cinnamon black bear twice in one day on the route up to these lakes
"Every time I go Jasper, I go Patricia and Pyramid Lakes, two beautiful lakes north of Jasper. Pyramid Lake has more fun to do. You can rent a boat in Pyramid lake and have fun for hours. There also a beach on Southwest of Pyramid lake that is good for swimming. You can rent a cabin next to Patricia Lake or a suit next to Pyramid Lake if you want to stay over the night. Patricia Cabins are more beautiful although I had a bad experience (see my review) but Pyramid Resort has a better view over the lake. At the end of Pyramid Lake Rd, there a trail for hiking or biking that goes up to Pyramid Mountain. It has a beautiful view when to reach the peak but the trail is not very beautiful (I ranked it 3 out of 5). It is a full day trail but if you are looking for short hike, try the trail in Pyramid Island, short and beautiful.There are also many rest areas with bench around Pyramid lake on the southwest side if you want to have lunch next to the lake."
"Has not changed a drop since the early 90s, but it now has more weddings on the island. Please dont toss your plastic bouquets in the water or leave them behind as to us, they are nothing better than pop bottles and its still littering! Picked up a few in Jasper in various locations. Not cool. Needs more parking for the island."
"We decided to go for a bear-hunt one evening while we were staying in Jasper, so headed out on the road to Pyramid Lake at about 7.30pm. The road winds up steeply from the back of the town into the surrounding forest. We saw a couple of elk and then,much closer to the lake, just by the turn off to the stables, we saw a mother brown bear with her two little darker cubs stood right by the road on the edge of the forest. What a fantastic treat. We then made our way to the lakes. These are stunning framed by the mountain immediately behind. Great views and photo opportunities. A lovely spot to be at dusk."
"We spent a morning walking from Jasper to Mina, Riley and Patricia Lakes. We followed the Pyramid bench hiking trails in the day hiking guide. Had a lovely hike with good views. There were very few other hikers so it was quiet and peaceful. Beautiful scenery. Relatively easy but interesting hike which we really enjoyed."
"If you have spare time in the evening, do visit these lakes. They are very close to the Jasper town and you have better chances to see wildlifes."
This lake is high in the mountains but is accessible by a winding road. You can rent boats. It has a small dock.
"Although we were there during the peak tourist season, the trail that leads up the hill/mountain had few hikers. In fact, at one point we went for more than an hour without seeing another person. The trail itself is an easy one, with only a couple of minor tough spots."
Stopped here on a bus tour. The scenery is beautiful! The lucky people who live in/near Jasper can take this in daily!
We went on the island for a picnic one evening and it was so calm and beautiful. The full moon that evening made it extra special.
These are pretty lakes and we enjoyed seeing the colors and mountain reflections. If you have the time you may want to take a ride to them.
the best part of Patricia lake is Patricia lake bungalow. Only tenants can park inside. Very peaceful environment with a pier.
now i know how photographers can get pixes of mountains that are reflected on such clear and beautiful lake waters
"A 15 min drive from jasper town, two lakes close to each other nice scenery we spotted wild animals in the woods on the drive up. Lakes do offer boating and an hotel."
"We visited when the weather was a bit rainy so we didn't get out to enjoy the surroundings, but it looked like a good area to rent a boat for an afternoon had the weather cooperated. Beautiful area, but parking is very limited and the last part of the road in has huge holes. We saw a small bus in front of us go through a puddle and sink a foot down! So glad he did that as it would have scared me to death had we hit it! Keep your eyes open on the road there and take your time - it will be worth it. Having said that, we discovered Annette Lake on the road out to the Jasper Park Lodge to be a much better lake to visit. No boats to rent, but hardly any people. There is a lovely paved hiking trail that goes around the lake with a nice beach area where kids can play in the sand. Also a picnic area with a playground for the little ones. Looked like the locals secret lake to us."
"We went there to do a canoe tour on Patricia lake and did not regret it! prices were acceptable, in sum the place offers a lot for everybody!"
The pyrite in pyramid mountain made it just outstanding. The little gem of an island was a perfect place to have lunch. The wading was very nice
"...because then it is still not too crowded and if you are lucky you see wildlife. Additional aspect is, that in the early morning hours the light for taking pictures is amazing and most of the time, there is no wind, so the lakes are ""like a mirror"".Additional tip: If you are looking for a nice place to stay, consider the Patricia Lake Bungalows - absolutely beautiful!"
"These lakes are only about 10 minutes drive North from the centre of Jasper. If you can, park at the end of Pyramid Lake Road, where an information board gives details of several short hikes around the area of the lake. A camera is essential."
"If you want to hire a canoe and venture out, then this is the place. Make sure you go to the middle, stop then look around, take note of the reflections on the water."
"Pyramid is a ""Dark Sky Preserve"". Went there twice but sunset is 9:45 and dusk lasts for a few hours. So not much sky before midnight."
Patricia Lake is beautiful color wise. Pyramid Lake does not have the same beautiful color but is enjoyable and quiet.
"On our first full day in Jasper National Park, we drove a little ways out of town on Pyramid Lake Road (to the north) to the Patricia and Pyramid Lakes. These lakes are on a formation called the Pyramid Bench, a lake-dotted terrace adjacent to Jasper town. We parked and first walked the very short trail to and around Pyramid Island. This trail is wheelchair accessible. After you cross the little pedestrian bridge, you'll see some wooden benches, a few picnic tables, a covered pavilion, a very short loop trail, and beautiful views of Pyramid Lake and the looming, huge Pyramid Mountain. It was solid gold with the sun shining on it. Thereafter, we crossed the road and headed up the 2B trailhead. (All the trails up here are given numbers and letters). The 2B heads up, sometimes fairly steeply, but the reward is the overlook of these two beautiful lakes and Pyramid Mountain. Far below you, in the distance, is Jasper town. You can see the Athabasca River and its valley. Gorgeous views. We continued down the 2B trail and came to other overlooks. We could see lakes on the other side of the Athabasca River: Lakes Beauvert, Mildred, Annette, and maybe Edith. We could see into the Maligne and up the Miette valleys. More gorgeous views. We continued down the trail and connected to the 2J trail (definitely less used), walking through larch, pine, and meadows filled with wildflowers. We eventually connected with the 2G and the 2 trails that brought us back to the parking area. On this entire hike (maybe 3 - 4 hours with plenty of stops to marvel at the views and a lunch break), we saw 4 people! If you're interested in a hike with awesome views of the area around Jasper, this is the hike for you."
Great area for long hikes or just quick photo moments. Worth spending some time on Pyramid Lake and the views of Mt Edith Cavell and Pyramid Mountain are awesome.
The lake was beautiful and we hired a boat and went out to the lake. So beautiful and peaceful. Would recommend a quick paddle out
"Go early to avoid the crowds and tour buses, Pyramid lake is best early in the morning when the waters are still and the reflection off the amazing water hues make for the perfect reflection photos"
Do make the effort to get to the Pyramid Lakes in the morning and definitely as the sun is setting. The light will be so different and you will get fantastic shots of Pyramid Mountain reflected off the calm waters of the lake! You will also learn of the people who passe through here during try Great Deperesion and also about fools gold!
"Serene- trails to explore, historical information available, amazing fresh air! You can find areas to go down to the water- some natural, some with activities like paddle oats and kayaks."
Very assessable by car and has options for visiting beaches or going for hikes. Make sure to go a bit further and go to the Pyramid Island and be rewarded with the views. Great views wherever you go. Highly recommended on a trip to Jasper.
We found Pyramid lake the prettier of the two. Pyramid lake is a very pretty lake with very pretty scenery surrounding it from all sides. The water is totally see-through!!!
"Both lakes were very pretty. Pyramid was warmer than Patricia, and had more beaches and shallow water access. Water temp was still too cold for wimpy me, but I was able to wade out a good distance. Lots of people were swimming."
"A short drive outside Jasper, we absolutely loved our day spent canoeing on Pyramid Lake... and Patricia Lake is just as beautiful. So peaceful out there, not at all crowded and the peaks just tower above you. The water is crystal clear and calm enough to make canoeing easy... the mountains are reflected perfectly in the waters... amazing.Highly recommended."
We really enjoyed the lakes. Took a walk out on Pyramid Lake to the island. Did some geocaching too! It is a busy area as well so take your time. We enjoyed the history on Patricia Lake as well.
Beautiful lakes very worthy of spending some time. Just a short drive from the center of Jasper. Took a lovely short walk at Pyramid Lake and then sat at the dock and stared at the majestic scenery.
"One of Jasper hidden secrets! It is very nice, and so close to everything. We went boating and had a very good time. A must is going over to the bridge, and island!"
Loved visiting this area especially pyramid island. It's views are lovely and places to picnic. Would certainly return and spend more time there.
Beautiful views and nice hiking trails. It would have been nice to rent a bicycle and bike along some of these trails which are clearly marked.
"very relaxing and quiet. close to Jasper town. they also have lodging up there, it will be very nice to stay over close by."
"Beautiful location, but limited activities. The island is a little little hike, but not a location that will require much time (unless you go boating or canoeing). If on the water, be aware that the winds can kick up and cause the water to be a challenge."
"These two lakes are north of the town of Jasper, only a few miles out of town. Our favorite stop was at Pyramid Island which is accessible by a wooden walkway from the shore. The island has a path around the circumference, with views of the surrounding mountains, benches, and picnic tables. Since the water is clear, you can see to the bottom and watch the fish. You can rent kayaks, canoes, and paddle boats from the Pyramid Lake Lodge if you'd like to spend some time on the water.There are a couple of pullouts from the road that you can use to view one end of Patricia Lake, which is also lovely. However, much of the shoreline of Patricia Lake is part of a rental cabin development which is off-limits unless you're a registered guest.Nonetheless, it was a pleasant trip."
We hired bikes at Pyramid Lake. It's a beautiful spot with a nice restaurant and you can also hire boats. There are mountain bike trails around the Lake but we just stayed on the road and explored the lake. A lovely quiet little spot just to enjoy the mountains and lake.
"Very beautiful, peaceful lakes with 360 degree views. The option of canoe rentals is fun. The morning reflections are amazing and the northern lights at night is breathtaking."
We drove into the hills above Jasper to view the lake. There is one entrance onto a small promontory jutting out into the lake from where you can get some good views. We were there early in the morning so had the place almost to ourselves. Later in the day it could get more hectic and you would lose some of the beauty of the place.
"Really close to Jasper town, Pyramid lake is a lovely place to walk around - really beautiful and peaceful, also seems to be popular for wedding photos. We hired a kayak from the Pyramid Lake Resort which was a great way to see the scenery. There weren't many boats on the lake at all when we were there so it was very tranquil and relaxing."
We saw two bears on our trip. Drive past Patriciia Lake and on to Pyramid Lake. The island is worth a trip.
It's a very easy - and not-much-used - detour from Jasper and worth every step of the way; less travelled than other out-of-town scenic attractions. Several tiny beaches which are suited to families. Beautiful lakeside café with a view too.
"An easy hike with the view of the city of Jasper and several lakes. Try it in the very beginning of your stay to get the sense of what is where. Good exercise, too."
Pyramid and Patricia lakes are some of the most tranquil areas in Jasper (that you don't have to hike into). On a nice summer day the beauty is breathtaking.
"When I first got to Patricia Lake last spring (2014) I saw what the picture shows: a shining surface on the lake that was about to melt. All covered with a thin layer of ice and, in the middle, a river of liquid water was coming into scene. Wonderful!!"
Beautiful and serene area. Had a great time hiking throughout the forest areas overlooking the lakes.
"Lovely lakes, worth taking a little drive to if staying in Jasper.
Lovely a quiet and very scenic and not far from the centre of town."
"We rode on horseback round these lakes with the Jasper Riding Stables. Great afternoon, lovely guide Jesicca and well behaved horses. Special memories"
"I kayaked in pyramid lake and didn't enjoy it very much. There are a lot of wonderful lakes in Jasper national park, and I don't see a good reason to kayak here instead of a nicer one. The rentals took a long time and were overpriced as well."
It was a nice short drive outside of Jasper. We visited on a Thursday evening and it was nice and quiet. Lots of spots for great photo opportunities and a nice walk
"went up to eat and food excellent. Just a bit away from the hub so need a car unless super fit ! elk wandering around . Peaceful and lodges looked really good. Worh a visit for fishing, kayaking."
"Pyramid mountain was amazing, we walked around the lake and the views were spectacular, also wading in the water. We also saw a weddings on the island the day we were there."
"Take the hiking trails marked with 2b, 2f, 2g, 2h and you will be rewarded with great views of the Athabasca valley."
We got married on the island at pyramid lake and I didn't want to leave! It had the most beautiful view of the mountains and the walk along the wooden bridge was amazing. Everything about the island is so serene and picturesque. Great location for anything romantic!
This place is gorgeous on a sunny day. Go early for the calmest lake views. We did a short walk to the island and back which was nice.
"We went hiking at Pyramid Lake in Jasper. The weather was brilliant, so it was easy to have a good time. There are plenty of trails and we were short on time so we did about 5km or so, but there are longer and shorter. We brought sun screen and bug spray (important), but we forgot water... still the trails weren't so challenging that we were dying by the end. It was enough work to be fun and relaxing and invigorating. Beautiful views once you get to the top, quiet, relaxing trails through the woods as well."
"Pyramid and Patricia Lakes are easily accessible from the town of Jasper and offer lots of activity options, at Pyramid lake especially if you are looking for rentals. We rented a row boat and spent an hour out on Pyramid Lake. It was so peaceful and the views were spectacular. Rentals were really easy, they are offered through the Pyramid Lake Resort which also offered really clean bathrooms as well and a restaurant if you were hungry. We didn't go for any eats after but we loved the boat experience and would go again."
"My wife and I went up to Patricia and Pyramid Lakes late in the day to look for wildlife. The opposite side of the lakes back up to Wildlife Preserves, so we had thought we might see some. Although the lakes were nice enough and the surrounding mountains were spectacular, we were disappointed that we saw no wildlife. Still, check them out when you are in Japser."
"We spent an enjoyable hike around Pyramid and Patricia Lake. The trails were mostly well marked but we did manage to get a bit lost and spent 3 hours instead of 2 on our hike. As the saying goes, we didn't get lost, we were just exploring! Some great views."
LOVED both lakes. Patricia Lake was right next to the Patricia Lake Bungalows and Pyramid Lake was a short walk from there. We rented a paddle boat and enjoyed Pyramid Lake one afternoon. We also walked across the footbridge to a tine island on Lake Pyramid. Super fun!
"Walk over a wooden bridge, you can get on to Pyramid Island in the middle of Pyramid Lake. The views from the island are beautiful. You can see over the lake, miles and miles into Athabasca Valley and Maligne Valley."
Both lakes are quiet and quite pretty without being huge. Parking is limited. It seems quite a popular spot for locals too.
"Because the roads were still frozen, we were taken here by the tour driver. Really beautiful scenery! Wish we had more time here!"
Patricia lake is a good venue fr bating and swimmingBoats can e hired also ice cream and drinksResturant in the adjacent resort although it was closed fr a private function when we visitedIf you are able bodies ( I am not) then lots of trails which looked good round about
The photos we took in the morning are fabulous. This is a good time to visit these lakes as you're more likely to be by yourself. Walk the wooden bridge over to a small island and make sure you walk the short distance all around to take advantage of the early morning light
Like most of the places around Jasper it is very picturess but hey unlike most of the other spots this is where the mozzies seem to hang out in huge quantities
Challenging biking trails in and around Patricia and Pyramid Lake. Would like to go back and check out more of them around the lake and perhaps see if we could try to get accommodation there.
A pleasant short trip (7 km) out of Jasper to a peaceful lake. while there we saw a young couple getting married - so romantic for some.
"We have been stopping at Pyramid lake for over 20 years. My husband proposed to me on the bridge, and it has been a family favourite ever since. Our 4 children enjoy an afternoon on the water in overpriced Kayaks. The fact that the lake is so close to town, makes it easy to stop for a quick picture, or a lazy picnic."
"Taking a canoe, kayak or paddle boat out on Pyramid Lake is definitely worth it. Was going to rent for half hour and so glad we decided on hour, as the time went by so fast. We spent a lot of time not paddling and just taking in the most amazing views. Not too many places in the world you can do a 360 and see only nature instead of a lot of buildings! We try to come here every time we are in Jasper in summer!"
"We went for a long walk (me in my wheelchair). The drive up is very nice and then the walk, with the lake on one side and the forest on the other is a joy.There were other people walking and cycling on the path and yet others kayaking on the lake, and yet the feel was that we were on our own.I need to add a warning that you will need something to keep the mosquitos away, they really seem to like to get out blood, although we were waring oil to keep them awayThis is a lovely spot and I think you are sure to enjoy it."
Nice little spot not far from town. Good place to stroll after dinner. Bring bug spray for evening hours in the summer. The range picks up some nice coloration during sunset. Not much more to say so enjoy.
"The lakes are pristine and a beauty to behold. Remember to put on bug spray or else the mosquitoes will get you! There are lots of trails around it, with various levels of difficulty. We brought a packed lunch in our backpacks and picked a nice quiet spot around the lake. A great place for a mini-picnic!"
Sandy beaches and good swimming. Was not too cold and the kids had a great time just playing in the sand and water. They also watched and chased the small fish that are easy to see in the clear water. We were able to have a picnic lunch as well.
"I wanted to write this review so all photographers who are searching for a nice sunrise spot between Patricia lake and Pyramid lake will be benefited...Photographers ATTENTION: Before i start my story :) - Please go to Patricia Lake for Sunrise and NOT Pyramid Lake if you are bound by time and have only one day for Sunrise I am not saying Pyramid lake sunrise is bad.. Patricia lake sunrise is far far beautiful than Pyramid.. i had to know it the hard way..Google images fooled me :(Since i was planning my photography trip in detail to Jasper and Banff.. i planned the best spots to get the sunrise shots when i there and also very near by so i can access them sooner and easier at the morning.. searched google for the lakes and sunrise images.. i had 2 days so i thought i will go to Pyramid one day and Patricia the other.. but the weather had its chances.. i had only one non-rainy day.. checking the beautiful images of Pyramid lake sunrise in google, i packed and went there by 4.45 AM.. i was accompanied by another car and it stopped @ patrica lake.. i was waiting for the sun rise @ pyramid lake and i slowly realized its not going to be great.. the best part was the sun raise was to the side of the pyramid mountain and not exactly on the mountain.. so i had little time to travel between the lakes..its a 2 min drive from Pyramid to Patricia and vice versa.. i got some good shots from pyramid lake but none of them were woow.. so i took off to Patricia.. Watch out for the board - Patricia Lake on the road.. i stopped there.. even before i got down, it was a Wooow... the reflections were amazing and the sunrise on the Pyramid mountain was stunning.. even with a cell phone you will get stunning imagesi was able to take only a couple of slow shutter of the sunrise since i was (not very late but ) late :(the other car which stopped was also a photographer and he said he learnt it the hard way too, but he was a local.. so he can shoot when ever he wants.. not for a traveling photographer who travels probably once in a life time.. i felt it would be useful for at least one photographer like me who is searching for beautiful spots to shoot sunrise in Tripadvisor.. You will thank me later :)"
The lakes are ideal for hiking and wandering about. Both lovely and close to Jasper. Prepare for a beautiful day outdoors in the scenic splendor of the Canadian Rockies.
Enjoyed this area a lot. I guess the big tour companies don't get to these locations but very peaceful and beautiful!
"Easy drive to both,. Nice easy walk around. Excellent pictu. Only bad thing is the mosquitos. Bring repellentres ie mirror lake image"
"What a place for a pleasant walk. Crystal clear water! Thousands of fish swimming around the bridges!! We loved the walk around the island. There are also canoes, pedal boats and kayaks to rent if you wish"
"The sky's out here can be amazing, fantastic colours on pyramid in the sunlight, really peaceful, kayaking is good, a really special place to us."
Paddled on Pyramid Lake twice during our stay in Jasper. We followed the road as far as we could and parked in the last parking lot. There was a wharf where we were able to easily put in our canoe. The back area of the lake was beautiful and so peaceful. A perfect spot for an evening paddle.
Yes Pyramid and Patrica lakes are nice. They are better if you go for the outdoor activities but not worth going out of you way just to view them...
We walked from the resort to the small island overlooking Pyramid Lake. We had a picnic lunch on one of the tables whilst watching people gently paddle by in their canoes. Got some lovely photos. Then we walked further along the lake until we heard howling from wolves or coyote. ?? That was far enough.Beautiful area.
"We enjoyed Pyramid Lake. We were first taken there on a tour where we visited Pyramid Island. The next day we took a taxi (about $18) out to the lodge boat house and rented paddle boats. The lake is beautiful, the water is crystal clear, and the boats are clean and well-kept. We spent about 2 hours in all. The people at the boat house called for a taxi to pick us up and return us to our hotel."
"A nice spot, we had our picnic lunch on one of the benches admiring the view and watching others who had rented canoe’s. Walked one of the short trails from the hotel/restaurant and then back along the side of the road. Worth seeing, especially as the lake is so near town."
We visited both lakes this morning clear blue sky and 30C.Crystal clear water.The Pyramid lake has an island with a path round it which is a pleasant walk.Both lakes are magnets for tourists so go early as it can .the views are stunning and well worth it
"After dinner, we decided to go somewhere close. The lakes are only 10 minutes drive from Jasper downtown. Sunset was around 9pm in June. Only few tourists were around at that time. We took wonderful photos at both lakes (smooth and mirror like surface). They are about 2 mintue drive apart. My kids liked to explore the small island at the end of road to Patricia Lake."
"Just north of Jasper are these two tranquil lakes where you can actually swim. They don't have the blue, blue colors of other area glacial lakes but they are watersport lakes with canoes, kayaks, paddleboats and small sailboats for rent at the area resorts. Their beauty lies in the still as glass lakes with the mountain reflections in the morning. We have stayed at both resorts on the lakes and they give you a sense of peace and quiet on the outskirts of Jasper. Further up Pyramid Lake Road is Pyramid Island, where we biked. Bike rentals are available at both resorts as well. Enjoy the lakes!"
We drove here several times and found beautiful pictues every time but the early morning views with mirror images of the lake and mountains was stunning.
very calm and serene area. did not hike this area except for a short walk to the little island. beautiful place to wake up and look over the lake to the mountain peaks.......not a crazy big resort feel nor very busy like some of the other more touristy areas
Stayed at Pyramid Lake resort and the still water in the morning with the mountain backdrop was excellent. The Pyramid Island is also a nice place to visit that is about a short walk from the resort. Great Boating on the lake as well.
These two lakes are on the opposite side of Jasper to the one where the main half day tour firm excursions go and so are less busy and all the more peaceful as a result. Well worth a visit.
Both lakes are only about 5 minutes from town and are right next to each other. For the photographer this is wonderful because you can catch the sunrise at both lakes on the same morning.
"We stayed at Patriia Lake Bungalows in a lakeside cabin.
What a great view getting up in the morning! Take a walk around the lake and then head to town for breakfast @bearspawbakery"
It is not far from the jasper town -- and quiet. Good for boating. Wildlife in the vicinity. We were there on a cloudy and rainy day so mised the snow peaks surrounding the lake.
Patricia lake is insane beautiful. A gifted place. I want to go back and do more than take pictures. I want to rent a place near by and spend my summer BBQing and swimming on the lake.
It's worth a stop to see the lakes. At pyramid lake there is a bridge you wan walk across to a small island. It's a beautiful place and worth a stop.
"Both lakes are not too crowdy (less than Louise, for example) but you can rent kayaks and canoes. In the evening, after the boat rentals close it is even quieter. I strongly suggest watching the sunset in lake pyramid!"
"The restaurant is 5 star plus but not necessarily the dress code, which was nice. View was awesome and food was amazing I would go back in a heart beat for more of their great food."
It is an easy drive from town. We saw many elk along the way as well as 3 babies. The lakes are beautiful with a mix of trees along the way. Looks like a great spot for a picnic or leisurely canoe ride.
"Both lakes host resorts, and are nothing special, you can rent canoes at Patricia Lake, but canoes are pretty uncomfortable."
"These two lakes are side by side and about a 8 minute drive from Jasper. They offer some beautiful scenery and have paddle boats, kayaks and canoes for rent so you can have an enjoyable day on the water. If you want to stay overnight there is a hotel which offers very good service. Very good for families and children of all ages."
"We stayed at the Patricia Lake Resort for three nights in June, and had stayed at the Pyramid Lake Resort on several occasions in the past. The views of these two mountain lakes are beautiful, especially in the early morning before the wind ruffles the lake surface. The small island in Pyramid Lake has now been adopted by a volunteer group who are replanting the vegetation and repairing the damage caused by previous visitors."
"Great place to swim on hot summer days. Can float around in a canoe or go SUPing. Not glacier fed so warmer than many mountain lakes, though still not super warm, requires hot weather. Good recreation area in winter for xc skiing, skating, snowshoeing and horse sleigh rides."
These two lakes sit side by side a little ways out of town (10 minutes). They both offer some fabulous scenery. Patricia Lake is smaller and more rustic while Pyramid Lake has a nice little island you can walk out to for a picnic or just to stroll around the island. There is even a little resort on Pyramid Lake where you can rent paddle boats. An easy day of beauty without a lot of driving!
"Pyramid and Patricia Lakes are definitely worth a visit if you want to see beautiful scenery. We started our visit by arriving at Patricia Lake one morning at 8am, and were pretty much the only ones there except for a couple of other photographers. It was quiet and peaceful, and we were rewarded by seeing a cinnamon teal and her ducklings. From there, we went to the Pyramid Lake Resort where we enjoyed watching people in canoes. The highlight of the trip, however, was Pyramid Island. It’s not a large island, but it’s very pretty and there are some excellent views, and on our visit there were also some loons to watch."
Take this short drive out of Jasper to enjoy nature's beauty. Amazing views of the lakes and mountains. Various spots to take plenty of photos and take in the views
"Want a day of leisure on your hectic tour of the mountains? Patricia and Pyramid Lakes are only minutes from Jasper and the beaches are pristine...soft, white sand, crystal clear turquoise water. A box lunch and a couple of beach towels is all that's needed for a wonderful relaxing day. Paddle boats, kayaks and canoes can be rented (no motors) and the photogenic vistas are everywhere...360 degrees around! If you want to stay overnight, the classy hotel blends into the hillside, and discreet service is top notch. But don't tell anyone we don't want Patricia and Pyramid lakes to become too, too busy. Perfect for families of all ages, couples and friends!"
"What a beautiful area, if you are adventurous you can rent canoes from the bungalows and row out, but it was a great place to just sit and take in the stillness."
"A bumpy but nice drive up to both lakes, very close to the townsite. Make sure you stop to see the Pyramid Lake Island, very nice little walk, glorious views!"
"Please do yourself a favour and visit these two lakes at sunrise. Its worth getting up for at that time of day. The reflections are out of this world, and the sun lights the peaks beautifully. One of our favourite things to do in Jasper... early mornings at the Lakes!"
we saw so many bears and other wildlife. take a sandwich and some drinks and rent a boat at Pyramid lake . no words to describe beauty.
"These lakes are particularly stunning, even on an overcast day with a storm looming overhead. One cannot describe the views you will encounter. Walking trails over to Pyramid Island were a treat and quite a flat, easy walk. Only about 10 minutes by car from Jasper. Make the effort and go. You won't be disappointed."
"Both lakes have Pyramid mountain overlooking their pristine, calm waters. It would be difficult to find more peaceful locations."
"Pyramid lake is absolutely breathtaking, with the snow covered mountain reflections in the lake. There are walking trails all around the lake. We did not stay at the resort. It is a short drive from Jasper."
"fantastic place, 3rd visit stayed at pyramid lakes lodges in 2007, but been back to lakes twice just for the views a must visit if you are in jasper."
"Visit the beach at the top of the mountain.
Only a 10 minute drive from Jasper, this lake is nicknamed the ""The Beach"", which is complete with sand.
It is quiet and peaceful and very relaxing."
Very cabin like and rustic. The beds and pillows are just ok at best. Food in the restaurant is excellent.
"My boyfriend and I have stopped by Pyramid Lake a number of times. We enjoy going out to the island for the views and information signs. This last time we decided to rent a canoe at the Pyramid Lake Resort! It's 35$/hour which is fairly decent compared to other areas in/outside of jasper. We loved this different perspective, and were able to canoe all over the lake in about an hour and a half. They also have kayaks, rowboats, and paddle boats for rent.This site is just breathtaking with its views! Bring a lunch and eat at the beach or on the island."
"A short drive up from the town of Jasper and you're here. Worth a nice, relaxing getaway.Patricia Lake has small boats (electric, no gas motor boats are allowed on the lake), paddle boats, and kayaks for rent. There is also a really nice restaurant (reasonable prices compared to restaurants in town) in the hotel/lodge there which has a beautiful view of the lake."
My family of three made a quick trip up to pyramid lake on the weekend. It is set up great with all the benches and tables great for a picnic and nothing but beautiful views everywhere
"Stunning place!!! Such amazing views. Could have spent a lot for time here. Walking, relaxing, boating, fishing, and more made this a great spot. Parking can be at a premium so be ready for a walk. We have and will return to this spot again."
Patricia lake was the highlight of my trip to Jasper. Absolutely breath taking photos. The water is so pretty with the mountain in the back round. Looks just like a post card.
Good place for taking mountain and lake pictures. Good walking and mountain bike trails. Minimal car traffic.
"Nice easy drive or you can hike from Jasper. Hiking trails, horseback riding and boat rentals all available in the area. Worth a visit."
I have never been to this part of Jasper and on our way home we took a little detour to check out Pyramid Lake. It's a short drive and there is a resort that we may check into next time to Jasper. There is a great little path to a small island that you can have picnics and the views are amazing!
"We have been to Banff and Jasper many times and I would say that these are two of the most picturesque lakes in the Canadian Rockies (Peyto Lake is great too). The reason they are great is that they are close to town and easy to access by road. They both have accommodations right on them (Pyramid Lake hotel and Patricia Lake Bungalows are both very good places to spend a relaxing weekend). They have picnic facilities (Pyramid Lake has the better of the two and in two different locations, we like the island location accessible by small path and bridge).There is wildlife in the area and best of all the lakes are very beautiful. They have that greenish turquoise colour that makes them stand out from other lakes and pyramid mountain as a backdrop, WOW! Not really meant for swimming due to the fact that they are glacial (have seen people swim on very hot summer days). They are fun for paddling a canoe, kayak or whatever. You can rent these there and totally worth it!Our favourite picnic place in Canada!"
"We took a relaxing stroll around the small Pyramid island. Beautiful mountain views. Woodpeckers and squirrels entertained the visitors. Small fish could be seen from the bridge connecting the island to shore. Water was near freezing temperature. The Pyramid lake water wasn't the typical mountain lake turquoise color, so if that's what your after, try some of the others in the area. Lake Louise (approx 2.5hr drive) was much more beautiful. There were many hikes to do on this side of Jasper and all the trails connect. Check out the maps before you go and plan your route. Trail 8 was fairly easy with only a few short steeper sections that took you to 3 lakes and a slough full of birds. Trail was quite rough near the slough and would be difficult to ride a bike in that section because of large muddy holes and root protrusions. Elk were very aggressive and we saw some charge a cyclist who got too close and had to use his bike as a shield/weapon to fend off an elk who chased the man 30 meters back up the trail. Then continued to follow him. We went down to the road and took the long way to avoid the group of 4 elk."
"arrived at just after 8am on a cold and clear morning, fabulous views of still lakes, great photo opportunity, good cold clear air to breathe, so peaceful, loved this location"
"I was only in the area for one night but came here for the afternoon, great views and trails. I wanted to walk some wooded trails by myself, but did not feel safe enough since I wasn't prepared for bears etc. It's ok!. Ps there is a wheelchair accessible walkway from parking area between 6 and 7 to get to the island, don't miss it!"
Go here in the morning!! We stopped and grabbed a coffee and pastry in the morning and headed here before the crowds and before the wind picked up. The water is clear as glass and the water was so still that it looked like a mirror across the lake. Beautiful photo area for reflections of the mountains. a couple nice little paths and bridges to walk on.
"A lovely area to hit the trails, enjoy the lake or just relax on the beach. clean water, no motorized boats on the lake. Very peaceful."
"You know all of those epic reflection pictures you see on postcards? Pyramid lake is a perfect place to take your own!!! Granted it has to be a calm day with not a lot of wind though...Rent a canoe, hike around or just pic-nic but do not miss these lakes! We also saw two bears by the side of the road as we were driving up!"
"The lakes are still frozen over in early April but the scenery is worth the drive anyway. The road is good. Narrow with a few potholes, but you just need to drive cautiously and you will be fine."
"Me and my friend decided to do the paddle boat in Pyramid Lake, the view is awesome! Stress reliever! So calm and peaceful. Love to do again this coming Summer!"
In and around these two lakes are a handful of great trails. I've live in town for 3 years and the beauty never gets old. Bring water and snacks as anything you will need to buy up here will be expensive. Worth wile is the trail to the base of pyramid mountain.. Leave early enough in the morning and scramble to the peak after the fire road ends.
"Did you know Jasper has one of the largest dark night preserves in North America?!? Well get out to Pyramid lake (15 min drive down a dark windy road), and head right to the island. It is a small cute island, that will afford you some spectacular views of the sky. It is an alright day trip too, but honestly nothing spectacular, night is where it is at. There are Cyotes, Wolves, Cougars etc... in the area, so just be careful before you go venturing out by yourself."
"My husband and i were in Jasper for a long weekend. We drove here, a ten minute drive from the Jasper townsite. It was a gorgeous day, started out cool in the am and warmed up. We parked close to the small island in the lake and walked around the lake for an hour. It was very slippery on the lake but i had small ice pics on and so i did not have any problems getting around. The views are great and it was very pleasant to stroll about on the lake. It is a very different atmosphere in the winter time and i was glad we were able to visit. You can skate, ski, snowshoe or just walk on the lake. there are horses and sleigh rides, so a few things to do. There are public washrooms and food available at the resort."
"Hike around the base of Pyramid mountain ending with a swim in the lake, was wonderfully refreshing!"
drive the winding road up to this area when in jasper the vista is amazing..and relatively quiet....if you stop in your tracks...you hear your ears ring it's so quiet and beautiful
"Pyramid lake is a very nice place to see the sunrise,at morning. In winter time the whole lake is frozen,nice time for pictures.Patricia lake is near by. They are almost like twin lakes.The mountains near by shine golden with sun rise. This is due to some metal in the mountain - was called fools gold. :-)There is a small island near by called pyramid island.. is pretty small. but is a good place for a short walk. Would be much more crowded in summer though.For a short period there is also dog sledging.. We didn't find it but were told that it was great fun... Will have to try the next time."
"At the end of Pyramid Lake is a small island that you can access by a small footbridge. It makes a nice little hike, even in cold weather. There are benches to sit and absorb the scenery, which is awesome."
There are many hiking trails around Pyramid & Patricia Lake. You can enjoy other winter and ice activities such as skating or snowshoeing...even a simple walk on a frozen lake is stunning! Nice place to spend a day.
"We've read that Jasper National Park was designated as a Dark Sky Preserve so we decided to head out to Pyramid Lake to stargaze and we were not disappointed. Pyramid Lake is only 10-15 minutes drive out from town.On a clear night, the whole sky is lit up with so many stars. Only downside was there were cougar warnings in the area, we didn't stayed outside our cars for too long. But I would definitely come back to do more stargazing and night photography!"
Pyramid is a good spot for a day trip as its right by Jasper and the surrounding campgrounds. The walk out to the island is lovely and the island contains a map of the surrounding mountains as well as a few spots for small weddings. You can also rent a variety of boats. The place is great for a day of fun with the family or by yourself. I recommend buying a waterproof disposable camera in Jasper as the views are great from the water.
"These two lakes, pretty close together, are wonderful for sunrise and sunset pictures with snow capped mountains reflecting on the lakes!"
"We have stayed in Jasper many times, but never took the short drive to the lakes. I wished we had done it sooner! Pyramid Lake has an island you can explore. It took us about an hour to walk around and read all the information stations. The Pyramid Lake Resort is very nice and cosy (according to a friend who stayed there). There are canoe rentals and paddle boats or you can just park your car and walk around and enjoy the scenery. We went to Patricia Lake after and it is just as picturesque, though we didn't spend quite as much time there. It's not like Jasper is full of hustle-and-bustle, but it's an even slower pace. We always stay in Jasper, but I think I may look at staying out here next time."
awesome place for a skate in the winter. They also usually have a fire going along with some home made curling rocks on the lake. over all a great peaceful location for your family
"These lakes are lovely, maybe not as see-through as some others around, but very picturesque and a number of facilities around the east-side of the lake"
"These were frozen over but that didn't mean they weren't worth seeing, lovely, the morning sun was beaming around the mountains which made them even more beautiful..."
"The trip into Jasper National Park is wonderful in the winter. Pyramid Lake Resort in tucked away in a quite valley, just 5 minutes from the town of Jasper. Lots of short hikes and loads of cross country skiing."
"You can take a walking or bike trail from Jasper townsite to both Patricia and Pyramid Lakes. Really well maintained trail and for all ages, downhill all the way down.In the summer, the little beach spots are popular and you can go have small fires, the water is good for swimming and the winter you can go ice skating."
This is one of the lakes on the Jasper Route near the Jasper Village. It does offer a few good photo shoot points but not as good as Athabasca falls or Lake Louise.
"We visited today, November 14 and there is plenty of snow around. Stunning, breathtaking views. Sit and listen to the absolute silence and soak in the views or throw a rock on the frozen lake and be pleasantly surprised with a very cute noise. Pyramid Lake Island is must visit and hopefully you'll be as lucky as us to see some Elk on the way out"
"everything was closing, so missed going in for a coffee, but we went for a walk around the little island that has a bridge, just past the resort."
The views here are beautiful. They are minutes from Jasper. There is lovely walking trails to enjoy the sights.
We stayed at the Pyramid Lake resort during the Remembrance Day weekend. I love to hike. Bring warm clothing. There are lots of trails in the woods away from the wind. The trails range from easy to difficult. We like gentle hiking and had no shortage of trails. We started one of our hikes at 8AM and the sun was just coming over the tops of the trees and started to shine on the top of the mountain it was a kind of orange/pink breath taking. I forgot my camera but I have the best picture in my minds eye.
Out first visit to the two lakes was on an overcast day with occasional showers. The problem was the low cloud spoilt the view of the surrounding mountains that afford the lakes a tranquil and peaceful demeanour.Patricia Lake is the first one you come across but we didn't spend too much time here because we both agreed that Pyramid Lake with it's island was the better looking. Closer to the mountains and having a lovely treeline the scenery just seems to have a little more. Get a sunny day and I would bet the colour of the water would transform.The bridge out to the island and a stroll around only takes twenty minutes or so but if you have the good weather then it is a lovely spot for a picnic.There is a resort on one corner of the lake and canoes and kayaks are available for hire but apart from that there are very few amenities (only your standard toilet sheds).Still i loved the peace and quiet. the small sandy beach and on a return visit the views of the mountains surrounding.
These lakes are both very beautiful with imposing Pyramid Mountain framing them. Fall foliage can be spectacular.
"Myself and my father took a canoe out on Pyramid lake. Stunning! The water was crystal clear, the trees and mountains provided the perfect back drop. I took a photo at Patricia lake and it now my desktop picture. Unbelievably dramatic. I even had a swim in the lake after. A bit cold but wonderful!"
"a nice peaceful walk, with benches to allow you to sit and read or just enjoy nature on Pyramid Island"
"Within easy reach of Jasper, good variety of walks, and stunning scenery. Shame the cafes were closed, but most touristy things had closed (late October)"
Beautiful lakes especially in the morning with the sunrise. Also plenty of wildlife along the Pyramid road.
"Both lakes are so close together, can be easily hiked around the surrounding trails. Only possible to walk part way around Pyramid lakeshore path, but many good interesting trails nearby giving good views of the lakes."
WOW. These two Lakes are not to be missed when visiting Jasper Park. Still waters with snow topped mountain backdrops.
"A sunrise on Pyramid lake can be quite nice, especially for photos. If your around for a couple days, do make sure you get out to the lakes for sunrise. They are located maybe15 minutes out of town. However, there are other places I like better. I really like the Mount Lady Cavell area. Also, we really enjoyed The Kinney Lake hike in Mount Robson Provincial Park."
All these lakes are so different in shape and colour. It's also a easy and not too long walk around most of them. Super.
Took a canoe out on Pyramid Lake and asked about the wildlife. We were told we may possibly see loons but not much else. We were lucky enough to spot and follow a bear along the lake shoreline for perhaps 200 - 300 meters. It was an amazing experience.
We stayed 5 nights on Patricia Lake and drove over to Pyramid lake each morning to take sunrise photos. Very scenic in October with the golden aspens.
"Those lakes are close to Jasper and yet wild life can be easily spotted. Nice trails lead you along the shores, and to a small island. A small resort on Pyramid Lake offers dining opportunity while half of the shore of Patricia is not accessible due to resident restrictions.Good landscape, suitable if you don't have more than a few hours in Jasper, but not for a whole day trip. Due to their location the temperature can be some degrees colder than Jasper."
"This area is only a short drive from Jasper and is very beautiful. We didn't do any canoeing, we simply drove up from the townsite to see the views and we weren't diappointed. We did the walk along the bridge to the island in Pyramid lake. The bridge and the loop around the island were a short easy walk with many opportunities for photos."
What awesome beauty just minutes from Jaspers. We went in October when the leaves were changing. Just plain beautiful. Worth the short trip. Check out the resort as well.
"After a morning of hiking around Maligne lake we took a side trip to Pyramid and Patricia lakes. They are pretty close to the town of Jasper. The lakes are quite scenic. There are a couple of small resorts and lodges, but really there is little evidence of people living there. Patricia lake has added interest for us WW2 history buffs. It was the site of the testing of project Habbakuk; the aircraft carrier to be made of ice. The remains of the ship can be seen by divers in the very cold water. unfortunately I didn't have my diving gear or I could show photos of the remains, too. There aren't as many trails here, but there are some roadside stops and some pullouts."
Do not go to Jasper without visiting these lakes. Both have just magnificent scenery and they are very close to Jasper downtown. Good all day hikes to them if you are fit!
"You can skip Patricia lake and go directly to pyramid lake, it is just 10 minutes’ drive from the town center. During evening, it is quite and the view from the island is very nice."
This is a lovely area for a walk. We went early in the morning when there wasn't many tourists around. The squirrels were very inquisitive and thought nothing of coming up close whilst you were sitting. The scenery was very beautiful and well worth a visit if you are in the area.
"Just a short drive up the mountain behind the town of Jasper, you will find Patricia and Pyramid Lakes. The lakes are beautiful, set in mountain scenery that is stunning, especially in sunny weather. At Pyramid Lake, be sure to park and take the walk out onto Pyramid Island. It is a nice walk through the woods, across a bridge, and out onto a short loop on the island. It is well done with nice information displays along the way. While we did not see any, I would think the area would be a great wildlife spotting area near sunset."
We went with friends hiking around the lakes. Beautiful scenery. Great trials. breath taking views. At the end we rented kayaks and paddle on Pyramid lake. it was great. So many photo opportunities. If you will go there early morning there is a huge chance you will spot some wildlife. Bears or elks. A must visit place.
"A great place to come for a picnic, as it is a short ride from Jasper. There are canoe and paddle boats and a nice walk about."
"We enjoyed seeing the lakes with the beautiful mountain backdrops. It was well worth the drive to go up there, especially the views of Pyramid Mountain."
Pyramid lake is a good spot for photos. We took a walk on a dirt road to the far side of the lake and saw a grouse. Nice place for a walk.
Pretty lakes with lots of wildlife and many trails and watersports available. Pyramid Mountain provides a dramatic backdrop.
Took a drive up to Pyramid Lake. Beautiful scenery looking across lake at the fall colors on the mountainside.
"It was worthwhile going to. If you are disabled, acess is reasonable and you will have a lovely time."
"We where up here in July, weather was 30 plus. when to Pyramid lake and sat on the shore and the grandkids played in the water and when canoeing. We took a picnic lunch so really enjoyed the day."
"Lakes for watersports with trails for bikes and walking or pony treking, nice for quieter relax away from town but within easy distance. Striking mountains especially towards evening."
Pyramid Mountain towers over these lakes which are just behind Jasper. Plenty for people to see and do here especially water activities.
Spent part of the morning walking around the lakes. We did see some birds and get some photos along the way. A very easy walk and the trail is almost flat.
"Park at Pyramid Lake and take the relatively easy hike up to the right of the lake. Great views of the lake itself, several others and Jasper town. Good half days enjoyment"
"Got to see it early in the day when the water was calm, so got brilliant photos of mountain reflected in lake."
Water & mountains reflected in the lakes are a spectacular sight with colourful boats completing a photo perfect picture!
Stayed at a cabin at Patricia lake. Pretty lakes with many trails. The trails had more birds than some of our other hikes. We saw elk several times at our cabin (also had to watch our step since the elk left behind several presents) and around the lakes. We had to stop on the road to allow a male and his harem to pass. The trailhead of a nice trail (birding and elk) around the area is across from the riding stables located on Patricia lake road.
We liked parking by the Pyramid Resort and doing the Overview Loop. Views of Pyramid Mountain and the lake were awesome.
These two lakes are a must visit in Jasper. Lots of great photo opportunities. We went in the morning and the colours were amazing.
Beautiful lakes not far from Jasper town. Very good reflection of the nearby Pyramid Mountain. Nice small Pyramid Island.
"What a perfect place, everything so clean, if you are going to be around you must to stop there to see all the beauty around. I recommend taking a good camera, stopping the car and walking around to see more of this lake."
"So many different things to do at Pyramid Lake, but haven't spent as much time at Patricia Lake. At Pyramid, you can do everything from lay on the beautiful beach to enjoy the views from Pyramid Island. From there, go for a hike to the Overlook to take in the beautiful views of Jasper and the surrounding area!"
"We did the trek up to the overlook at Pyramid Lake. A really good trek and some good views across to Jasper. There was a good spot not far up where Parks Canada have put two chairs and you could watch the sun set, really beautiful. Fairly long trek, we saw woodpeckers, squirrels and heard a bear......didn't wait any longer to see it though! Saw elk in the water at Patricia Lake."
"Beautiful,awesome,pleasant,outdoorsy,nature at its best, short drive from the townsite of Jasper. Lots of pets in the area, great place for a wedding. No bugs, fresh clean mountain air."
"Scenery here was amazing and the areas are not too busy. There are canoes here if you feel energetic, or just take a walk round the lake."
"If you have an hour to burn, it's worth the drive. There are also great spots to have a picnic if you have the time."
Both lakes are really beautiful - the colour of the water is incredible and the surrounding mountains makes for a very picturesque setting. We visited in June 2012 and again in August 2014 and stayed at the Patricia Lakes Bungalows. Lots of walking trails along the lakeshore and the surrounding woods. There are lots of elk around here and we saw male elk as well as a couple of mothers with their calves. We also saw a beaver dam in a swampy part near one of the hiking trails. When we were there in June 2012 it wasn't advisable to go to the far side of Patricia Lake as there were wolves over there - I don't know if this is still the case?
"It really is just behind the town of Jasper. The walk to the island over the cool bridge is perfect. This has ""romance"" all over it, so take that one you love so much and go for a walk, sit at the bench and see nature at its best."
"Fantastic, gorgeous scenery. Lovely for photography, fresh air and really fun to hike and picnic.. I love this place, both lakes are fabulous. I definitely recommend for trip"
"Pyramid island is a nice, quiet place for a pique-nique or just a nice place to sit on one of the many benches in this nicely maintained island. There is a small bridge leading to the island. You can get great views of the surrounding mountains. Worth the detour."
The mountain provides a great background to the lake. We hired kayaks and had a fun time out on the water
"We visited the two lakes during our visit to Jasper last week and unfortunately had some mixed feelings. The Patricia Lake Trail (Loop No. 6) turned out to be quite a disappointment, even though the lake itself was quite pretty. The trail starts from around the parking lot outside the Stables and would only take an hour or so, mainly through a forest, with part of it running along the shore of Patricia Lake with nice views. Did not see any bears, but heard they are often seen around the area, so make sure you come prepared. The problem with the trail for us was that it's used by the local stables for the horse rides and, with the path so narrow, it was really difficult to avoid the horse droppings that were just everywhere and a lot of them very fresh and smelly. Don't mean to be rude, but it literally turned out to be a very sh i tty trail! This unfortunately ruined this hike for us and we wouldn't be returning nor recommending it to our friends, unless you want to take a horse ride. We then drove the two parking lots up, till the end of the road at Pyramid Lake, where we had another short walk of maybe 2km to the next lookout and it was beautiful! We liked the Pyramid Lake so much that we actually went back couple of days later to rent a canoe from the resort along the road (can't remember the name, but can't miss it and rentals are plentiful, inexpensive and located just on the shore). So all in all the lakes are wonderful and worth seeing/ canoeing; however some of the trails around them seem to be better enjoyed on a horseback rather than on foot!"
"These lakes are lovely, particularly the views of Pyramid Mountain from Pyramid lake, defintely worth the trip for photos. Also lots of good bear sightings on the road up to the lakes."
We visited in winter so lakes were frozen but we managed to have some sunshine for our visit and even with -15 weather you could still appreciated the beauty of these two lakes and the surrounding area.
"Easy drive to get to, even if you bike. Cute Island at Pyramid Lake for picnic or a stroll with photos. A Return hike from Pyramid lake up and down can be 90 mins. With INCREDIBLE VIEWD of Pyramid Mountain and Townsite! There are even 2 RED CHAIRS 20mins up from path the most North parking lot, to catch incredible views in comfort. GO! Especially for non athletic/older ppl"
We didn't have very good weather during our stay. Still Sunset over the lake was still really pretty. We have the whole place to ourselves too
"Peace & tranquility, the lake, some animals, fresh air. Out of town, but not very far away. People were very friendly & helpful. Spent two wonderful days. Will go again, for a longer time."
"A good place to visit. Nice island near Pyramid Lake to explore and some nice newly built trails. Better suited to a longer visit of hiking, kayaking and camping. Pyramid lake was better than Patricia lake."
"this place features a very quiet lake with few boaters. it is a tranquil place, and the hike to and around the island is easy and short. great as a first place to visit in the mountains in order to start to get the rhythm of Jasper."
"If you walk out to the little island on Pyramid Lake, if it is sunny, you get a great view of Pyramid Mountain."
"We visit Pyramid Lake every summer and it is one of our favorite places in Jasper. It is a short drive up the hill from the town site, and it is a beautiful spot to hike or just relax. There is a bridge out to an island in the middle of the lake and it is a very peaceful spot to sit at one of the picnic tables and enjoy lunch. There are no garbage cans on the island so you will have to pack up everything you bring and deposit it in the bins at the parking spot on the mainland. I have seen weddings take place on the island, and there are a few benches overlooking the lake that makes it a perfect spot for a small cozy wedding."
A very short distance from Jasper. Both lakes are very beautiful and a relaxing place to enjoy the day. A We did a small hike on the shore of the lake. Saw a moose in the distance at one of the lakes. The trails are an easy hike and there are a few benches available along the lake.
You can hire canoes at pyramid lake and the views are fantastic. It's a lovely way to spend a couple of hours
A quick drive from Jasper and you will have immediate access to two large lakes and wilderness at your fingertips.
"I should have realized that when this hike started near a stables that it might also be utilized by horses! We did not connect the dots and on a warm day, this is a very intense trail due to the smell of horse dung. The lake is pretty, but most of the time the hike is in the woods, and smelly. There are far better hikes close to town so if you are short on time, I would skip this as a hiking option...go for a picnic instead on a pretty spot by the lake."
Just outside Jasper are these two lakes with picnic spots. We loved the stands of Aspen trees. Quiet retreat from Jasper. Plenty of parking.
"There is a bench in front of Pyramid Lake that I could sit on for hours, It is so beautiful. I also love the trails that are opposite Pyramid Lake that take you to a small serene lake. Patricia is nice too."
"We arrives near sunset and the lighting was very interesting. If it had not so cloudy, this could have been a magnificent place to watch the clouds light up at sunset."
"Beautiful quiet lakes, ideal for a leisurely stroll or a day of canoeing, perfect for a lazy Sunday afternoon. You can take short walks with very few people around. We even spotted some people swimming."
These two lakes are very close together. On Pyramid Lake there is a walkway out to Spirit island which is interesting and something people have done for generations. On this island there are picnic tables and benches and views. Paradise Lake in my opinion has little public access and Pyramid Lake is better for that.
"Pyramid Lake is situated at the base of Pyramid Mountain. There is an island accessible by an attractive bridge leading you to lovely views. I saw canoeists, people fishing for trout.The slender Aspen trees have beautiful black to dark tan bark that bears tear off Yet they recover...nature is amazing!There is a huge selection of bird & animal life here & at Patricia Lake. I saw bald eagles, elk & bears here. I would have loved to have seen osprey, longhorn sheep & moose!Fortunately there is prescribed forest burns to prevent fires enabling vegetation to grow for the wild life to feed on."
"Rent a canoe from Online fishing/tackle and spend an afternoon paddling pyramid lake! Toss a few fishing poles in and troll the lake while taking in the mountains and grasslands.There is a beautiful, white sand beach to relax on away from the hustle & bustle of people on the fat side of the lake past the island and bridge.Blackflies we're biting as the sun went down.. Warm August seemed to keep them alive past their usual season. Else, just perfect!"
"After finding we had a spare hour we headed to these lakes Both are set in a nice area with nice scenery and very quiet. It would have been good to pick a spot next to lake and just sit there relaxing all day, soaking in the scenery and calmness of the atmosphere. We were also lucky to see a Grizly bear on the way back to Jasper"
"Not too many people, which was nice....would have loved to have stayed here....very quiet and peaceful. Two young elk down by the water just having a late afternoon nibble in the shallow water. Worth going and seeing for yourself.....not too far a drive."
We went there when the lake was frozen. It was a very beautiful landscape. Lookes like a postcard. The little island is pretty nice for a picknick.
"Out of the way, but worth the trip. We stayed in the area and the lakes with the Pyramid Mountain behind them, were lovely. Did not swim or boat, but they looked like a fun things to do."
"Not the jewels of Jasper like Lake Maligne, but Pyramid lake has a small beach and was warm enough for swimming. Take the road to the left just before Pyramid lake (says ""day use only"") and continue to the end for the biggest parking lot and beach."
"We enjoyed a quick afternoon stop and a swim at the day use area at Pyramid Lake. Lots of local families and tourists enjoying a swim, and the water, as it is not glacial fed, is refreshingly cool rather than freezing!"
"These two lakes are somewhat hidden and don't offer the amenities as some of the bigger, more popular lakes in the area. But that also means that they lack most of the tourists! Great place for a hike or even some alone time."
Quick 8 min drive from downtown Jasper. The lakes are lovely. We went up to Pyramid lake because we were told this is the darkest spot at night and therefore best for star gazing. Cloud cover thwarted our plans. Maybe you will have better luck.
These lakes are fabulous and so close to Jasper. They have kayak and paddle boat rentals available. Plan on spending couple of hours or more or even have a picnic lunch. The place is quite relaxing and beautiful. Apply sun block and then spray mosquito repellent before heading into the lakes.
"It was close to Jasper town and you can rent kayaks and other boats on pyramid lake. very pretty, we enjoyed it."
"Both of these lakes were beautiful.
Both had easy walking trails or you could just sit and relax.
Watch out for midges."
"Even though the light wasn't on the right side of the mountains, it was still a lovely peaceful place to visit just before sunset. Nice reflections if there is no wind."
"while the lakes are pretty, I don't think they are worth going out of the way to see. but, only 5 to 10 minutes from downtown Jasper, so if you have extra time, these lakes are easily accessible. I liked nearby Edith and Annette lakes better."
"It was pretty and I like the red rocks mountains around, but it Lake Lousie and Morraine Lakes are much more scenic, but if you are in the area, def drop by."
We hiked from Jasper to these lakes. It was a very hot day but we set off pretty early and it took us about an hour and a half going at a reasonably leisurely pace. Both lakes are beautiful and they were far less busy than a lot of other places in the Rockies. People were there having fun in the water rather than taking a million photos. You can hire canoes and peddle boats etc. There are also plenty of places to sit in then sun or the shade. Take the time to go on to Pyramid Island. It is a haven of tranquility. Drinks and food at The Pines restaurant by the side of the lake is reasonably priced and very good quality. This is a perfect thing to do if you enjoy walking and like getting away from the crowds.
"Quiet and nature that has not changed in centuries.And very,very beautiful and bring your camera for lots of pictures."
"There was so much to do in this area, we particularly liked the little island in the middle of Pyramid lake. It had some spectacular views and great little seating / picnic areas. Well worth a stop. There were also some really nice looking cabins near Patricia Lake."
"Absolutely recommend these places! Silent, no mass tourism. Beautiful. Enjoyed it very much to walk along short trails. There is a small beach on one of the lakes where locals go for a swim. Try this out."
We love both of these places. We stay at Patricia Lake and will often take the easy walk to Pyramid. The Restaurant at Pyramid is a special treat as is the easy walk to the little island.
"Since I have been to Maligne lake, I compare the two. These lakes have plenty of hiking trails around and nice views. The water isn't as crystal blue as Maligne lake, but there is a lot less traffic. My fiance convinced me to rent a paddle boat, and I ended up paddling around the lake (I hate paddle boats). Another pretty location and only 10 minutes away from Jasper."
"A fun little lake, very relaxing. not as picturesque as Maligne but a great place to while away the afternoon"
"We hiked from Jasper to these lakes and watched the osprey circling the lakes. It was very quiet, no crowds and peaceful on the pyramid island. A couple of canoeists were on the lake. Wonderful views when the sun hits the mountains opposite the lakes. There is a restaurant/cafe at Patricia lake but we didn't go in. We were informed that we could swim in the lake if we wished (it's not glacial fed), but we declined as it was a bit too chilly on the day.."
"The 2 lakes are within walking distance of Jasper. We rode trail bikes out to the lakes (3.5 miles). Breath taking views. Nice beach, boat rental and restaurant at Pyramid lake. Don't miss the island on the far side of Pyramid lake."
We visited the lakes in the early morning before we left the Jasper area and continued on our journey towards Vancouver. It was so peaceful there. We enjoyed our short visit to the lakes. It was worth the effort.t
Easy drive out of Jasper townsite to these lakes. There is a nice little beach area at Pyramid that is popular with locals. You can take small boats out on both of these.
Situated just outside Jasper and easy to drive to. We got there about 10.30 in the morning and were able to rent a couple of kayacks. The lake was not crowded like others we visited which made our visit more enjoyable.
"I walked here from our hotel - approx. 5k - hoping to see some wild life ...no luck :o( The actual road is pretty as are both the lakes on arrival . The walk out to the little island on Pyramid is well worth trudging thru the snow for , and the history associated with Patricia Lake is interesting ."
"So glad we spent time at the day use area! It was clean, water was excellent! Clean and perfect temp for swimming. Awesome place to cool down and it doesn't cost anything to use! Pack your cold drinks, snacks, camping chairs and towels!"
"If you come to Jasper, go here. One of the nicest areas and not full of people. The little island is fun, too."
"Very tranquil, loved paddling round lake, go early so you have lake to yourself, no negatives, beautiful spot"
Like most of the Rockies the area is picturesque and rugged. We were lucky with the weather too so lots of 'sunny' photos were obtained. There are plenty of designated stopping places too which makes for easy access to the lakes.
"I you have an extra hour or two, this is just a short drive, perhaps 5 miles, outside of Jasper. Both lakes are scenic, boats of various types are available for rent."
Very easy trails to walk around with lovely vistas and scenery. Lots of places to sit and enjoy the lakes and habitat.
Great out of the way lakes to visit. Lack of crowds made it enjoyable for us. We hiked the island on Pyramid Lake and enjoyed the views.
"Less frequently visited, these two lakes are worth a visit if you have unlimited time. They are home to a couple of bungalo-cabin rentals and have some small docks and very little parking available. A serene canoe ride, some fabulous reflection photos on a completely still day and a nice little hike are the chief attractions here. Beyond that, they can get a little crowded in summer and some of the cabins discourage non-renters away from their docks. It is very pretty up there but not as spectacular as other lakes in the park."
"We drove up to see this lake the night before we had to fly out and a bald eagle was flying right over our car along the road as if he was escorting us and giving us a farewell goodbye because sadly we had to leave. Husband is depressed on our return, this is the first vacation where he informed me that he was not going home and that he was staying."
"We loved the hike through the woods bordering Pyramid and Patricia lakes and past the cottonwood slough. The hike is very relaxing, not too strenuous. Just a little ice was at one end. Beautiful views of the lakes. Also a nice little walk out to Pyramid island."
"I spent about an hour kayaking on Pyramid lake in the evening. Jasper is blessed with beautiful small lakes right outside of town. Not only are Pyramid and Patricia stunning, but Lakes Edith and Annette on the other side of town have nice sandy beaches and unbelievably clear water. Lake Beauvert at the Jasper park lodge is also fantastic."
"To be at peace with the world,paddle out to the middle of Lake Patricia.where you are surrounded by unspoiled nature with its gentle sounds and delicate scents. Moments to treasure."
"Still waters, clear reflection of snowy mountain and trees. A wonderful place to visit. Felt very serene there. Took a lot of photos. Highly recommended."
"Loved this site, mirror images on the lake, Elk and their young, Ospreys and Bald Eagles, shame the walks were closed due to bear activity, but pleased the animals and public were being protected."
"There isn't a whole lot more that I can say about these wonderful lakes other than, must see! They are breathtaking and while activites are not so much on the agenda, they are simply beautiful places to feel part of nature again. A great way to forget about the turmoil out in the world."
Don't bypass these two lakes that are just a bit above Jasper. They were two of the prettiest lakes we saw our whole time there. There is a small island in Pyramid Lake and our host in Jasper worked at the National Park and had built the bridge to this island. We met people from Holland there touring and then ran into them 2 more times that day. So fun to travel!!
I have only ever dared dream of taking photos of these lakes like ones I have seen on line. FInally have my own shots of these amazing lakes. The reflections on the still waters are just amazing.....
Photographers will love these lakes for the atmosphere and reflections in the early morning (6.30am). The mist is just rising from the lakes and the reflections of the surrounding mountains is spectacular. Remember to wear warm clothing and get out there early.
"We meandered over to these two lakes on a fluke towards the end of our trip. Mistake to not have gone sooner, glad we did go! It is beautiful. Some older structures on the lake, beautiful scenery and a very easy, pleasant stroll rather than Hike. There are trails all around, so if you wanted to really hike, you can. We just took a relaxed pace and loved it."
Great location for sunsets or night shooting/enjoyment. There's a dock and a little store located there.
The Pyramid lake is beautiful. The Pyramid Island at the end of the lake is fantastic. There are many great view points on the island. The Pyramid Island is my favorite attraction in Jasper.
"These two lakes are a fifteen minute drive out of Jasper. Let's be honest you are not short of picturesque lakes to visit in the Rockies. These two are unspoilt and the aren't many people about, Plenty of trails nearby.We went early in the morning, good for wildlife spotting and very tranquil"
Just up the hill behind the hotels is a couple of hidden gems. Worth the short drive or if you are into hiking a long hike uphill. You can drive up and walk the signposted tracks in the forest. Pyramid lake has boating and there is a restaurant so you can stay all day or just a short time.
"We walked the full trail from the town of Jasper. About 6km each way, and did the round trip walk through the forest in about 4 hours.Saw elk, red squirrels but luckily no bear. We took our lunch from town, but there are basic food options at Pyramid Lake, where you can also do various types of boat and canoe hires at the Lodge. Toilet facilities at Pyramid Lake.Of course you can take the car and be there in a few minutes, but we saw so much more. Take walking trail number 15. Its mainly good quality dirt tracks. Not flat but not very challenging."
If with car - nice easy place to visit - no hiking necessary. We avoided them until our last day because of popularity (we like to hike away from the crowds). But we went in the morning and Pyramid was nice and quiet and going out to the island IS very nice. Go on off times.
Pyramid mountain and Patricia Lakes is a beautiful spot which is worth a visit. We went as part of a tour not sure about other transport.
"These lakes are mere minutes north of the Jasper town site, so easy to get to quickly. Canoeing and boat rentals are available at the further lake, plus a restaurant.The lakes are pretty and popular, and there is limited parking available at several locations.If you are walking or biking the trails, you may want to carry bear spray with you--a biker was charged by a grizzly on one of the trails while we were visiting (early Spring), only a few kilometers north of the Jasper town site."
"We went when the sun was setting - stunning. So picturesque, so quiet and still. Definitely a must see whilst in Jasper"
A short drive out of Jasper. Such a pretty area with the two nice lakes and those gorgeous mountains as the backdrop.
"Hiked Trail 2, 2 g - beautiful, not to hard - well worth the time. Reasonably well marked trail, kid friendly too. Take a trail map and you will be ok."
"The lakes are very scenic and a nice picnic areas not far from the township of Jasper, AB. Definitely recommend"
Lots of choice of walks short to long and boats to hire canoes and pedolos. Lovely setting. It was in May with snow on the peaks and some bigger lakes were still frozen. We walked in shirtsleeves in sunny weather.
"These lakes were frozen when we visited them, pyramid mountain against the vivid blue sky took ones breath away. We would have liked more time to some of the lovely walks."
"Go here if you need to kill time, want an evening stroll or staying for a whole week in jasper. It is filled with locals but doesn't have any superlatives!"
"We happened to stumble upon Pyramid Lake just driving around the outskirts of Jasper, and it was amazing. There is a island you can walk to from a bridge with beautiful mountains surrounding it. It was so fantastic we went there twice!"
We just went there to kill some time and to have some photos taken as it wasn't time to check in at our hotel yet. Patricia Lake was still close too bad but we're glad to have seen Pyramid Lake at its frozen state. I can only say it's beautiful plus the fact that it's just a few minute drive from the town. My husband and I had fun taking photos by the boat dock like we're having pre-nuptial photoshoot just by ourselves hehe. This lake is a must see. We'll try to come in summer and spend longer time there.
Reserved a 2 night stay in the Whistler suite. Exceeded my expectations. Room was very clean and beds are comfortable. Washrooms are upgraded and kitchenette comes with all the necessities. Unfortunately walls are thin so you can hear your neighbors if they're loud. But my kids still managed to sleep so not as bad as it sounds. Cabins are close to trails and lakes. Will stay here again.
We went in April after fresh snow and were still able to do a good 5km hike around some of the many trails in the Pyramid Lake precinct. The lakes were all frozen over still but the scenery was spectacular nevertheless.
The lakes are frozen now so we rented snow shoes and hiked the trails around Pyramid Lake. Good trail markers. Views are beautiful! Ran across a group of white tailed deer.
"Took a hike around the area and over to the island. Lots of opportunity for snowshoeing, skating or cross country skiing. Lovely area for pictures as well."
Looking for a lake near Jasper to let the kids cool down in was quite the chore as we didnt want to travel to far out of Jasper. We quickly settled on Pyramid Lake as it was closest. We found one of many open bbq pits and set up day camp. After a quick meal we took the kids to the beach where they enjoyed swimming in the cool mountain water and I took pictures of there swim with a stunning mountainous background. We loved it so much we took the kids a second time during our short stay. I highly recommend this beautiful lake to anyone who just wants to enjoy a quite day at the beach.
quick 5 min drive from town and your in one of the best locations for photos and easy walk in jasper!
"Wonderful and tranquilizing experience, excellent relaxing time on the lakes, just a little wait to rent canoes if you do not own one. Don't miss it!"
"We visited early morning just as the sun was waking up. The whole lake was frozen over and some people were out walking there dogs on the ice. The total silence was a bit scary at times, you could even hear the ice cracking and moving. We loved it"
"Pop on up to these lakes. Not far out of town, and rather ethereal once there.
Lovely to see the locals taking pride in the environment here.
We visited on a blustry and bright day, it was still beautiful.
Well worth a visit..."
"I went here early in the morning. The water was still and reflected the mountains and forests. It was picturesque and a great way to start the morning with a walk around pyramid island.
Visited August 2012"
"Perhaps when you have seen so many picturesque lakes and mountains in Alberta, one would no longer be that THRILLED. Again, I would say the place is beautiful and lovely scenery, but no need to get all excited, for canada has TONS of these to offer.So, only go if you have the time.Other better alternatives? Visit the Maligne Canyons (a 15min drive away). I've written a review on that! Now, THAT place is worth the visit."
We came here and just wandered around the lakes! It was great! I got a few photos and we just explored the area. When we were near Patricia Lake we saw two elk very close up! It was amazing to see a mama and her baby. A great and unique experience.
"The views here were great, and the walk around the little island at Pyramid lake was good. Quite an outstanding mountain."
We went snowshoeing on and around Pyramid Lake in January and it was beautiful and alot of fun!! Our tour guide was so informative about the area and we learned so much about the surrounding area. It was so beautiful!! We lucked up and were able to dog sled in the same day.
A wonderful place to take photos with reflections of the mountains in the beautiful water of the lakes. Very close to Jasper.
"With a stable nearby, what did I expect? But the manure was thick, which detracted from the pretty little ponds. We saw a mom elk and her calf, but very few birds or other wildlife. But they were some of the less vertically challenging trails in the area. And the bugs weren't bad. If you are looking for an easy hike, this is it."
This is a fabulous spot to see the sunset...great photo ops with still lake and reflections...looks like a nice place to eat with a great view as well. Save it for the sunset...only place we came across that we were able to do that.
"The highlight of our trip was taking a two person kayak out onto the lake beneath the Pyramid mountain. Only $35 for an hour, and it's so quiet and spectacularly beautiful. This lake stays pristine because no petrol powered boats are allowed on it. Even in the summer I wouldn't want to swim in water so cold, but for paddling it was ideal."
"We stopped by both of the Lakes early in the morning. It was overcast, so we moved on to other attractions. Later in the afternoon we went back and enjoyed the little bridge that led to an island on Pyramid Lake. It was very uncrowded and we enjoyed the scenery."
Not far out of Jasper and worth the visit to go see it. Nice boardwalk out to an island that you can go walk around. Very pretty!!
Great views of Pyramid mountain. But Lake Edith just the other side of town is better. Visited there at sunset and we were gobsmacked at the peaceful location and incredible reflections.
Took a day trip to Pyramid lake while visiting Jasper. Lots of great trails and the view is amazing. Rented a electric motor boat to take a tour around the lake with my wife. Fantastic day.
Like to go across the bridge to the island. Pretty views we got some great pictures from there in the evening with the shadow of the trees on the water. There is also a restaurant but we didn't go in
"While staying in Jasper we made the short trip to visit these beautiful lakes. Complete tranquility. There has been no ugly, commercial development but tables and benches are available. Lakeside walking is easy and delightful. If you are a keen photographer then photo opportunities abound, especially late in the afternoon on a sunny day when the light is superb. A stunningly beautiful corner of the world."
"The drive up to this place is great. Saw a nice bull elk on my way up. The lake is very scenic, Have never stayed at this location or eaten at the restaurant, but both look inviting."
Pyramid and Patricia lakes are located just above Jasper and are easily reached by car or bicycle. You can great views of the lakes right off the road. The wind will come up in the afternoon so if you want a peaceful reflection photo get there in the morning. Also the morning time is when the light is on the mountains behind the lakes.
We spent three days in Jasper and these two lakes were our favorite spot. They are situated only a short distance from town and are reached by a very pleasant drive. Our favorite was Pyramid where a walking bridge connects to a small island in the lake. There are picnic tables available and sign boards giving information. Pyramid Mountain is best viewed from this island. Early morning and late evening are the best times to visit. The sunsets are especially beautiful with reflections of the mountains in the water. The area was never crowded but there were a significant number of people about. We were hoping to see some wildlife but did not.
"""Go early"" was the advice we received from fellow travellers about this Lake and they were so right.There were only two other couples there when we arrived before breakfast on a chilly but sunny morning nad it was so worth it.We had the lake/mountain views to ourselves and were able to take some beautiful photos of the reflections of the mountains in the 'so still' waters of the Lake. Red squirrels chattered loudly to keep us from their feeding areas on the little island. The spell was broken 30 minutes later when the first of several coaches arrived!"
Easy trails around the lakes. Can book kayaks and rowing boats. Great for picnics. A quiet area to explore. Mountain bikers love these trails. A car is useful to get you up there.
These Lakes are not quite as jaw-dropping as Lake Louise but are well-worth a look. Amazing reflections create a perfect vision on a clear day.
"My girlfriend and I hiked out to Pyramid lake from Jasper (about 5km) and spent an afternoon by the lakeside - very pretty location with a small beach for sunbathing. Recommended and less busy than the lakes to the south of the town (Edith, Annette etc0"
Drove to these two lakes for the first time- very close to Jasper. Very windy that day so we did not stay very long. Thought it would be a lovely spot for a picnic if the weather had been better.
"perfect for sighseeing, lots of picnic spots too. we rented a pedal boat and it was worth it, me and my son had an excellent quality alone time while on the boat in the middle of the lake."
"A helpful waiter mentioned this place to us. In all the times we've visited Jasper, we had never gone to Pyramid Lake before. It's a beautiful spot with a soulful mountain vista in 360 degrees from the small island you reach via footbridge. A great place for peace and quiet. Just be sure to drive to the spot farther in where you can actually park, then access the foot-bridge to the island (past the initial Pyramid Lake Resort parking area/dock)."
"Both very pretty lakes and very much less crowded than others popular in the Canadian Rockies. We stayed at Patricia Lake Bungalows right on the lake and it was beautiful. We drove to Pyramid Lake, equally beautiful, with some boats to rent. We would have loved to take one out for an hour or so but didn't have the time, If not staying near there they are still worth a drive by."
"These are very attractive lakes near Jasper, and if you won't be going much further, to Maligne Lake or even Lake Beauvert near the Fairmont resort for instance, Pyramid and Patricia are a nice 1-3 hour diversion."
"Travelled from Jasper in our hired car. Only about 30 mins drive. What a find these lakes were. Not too busy so you can really take in all the beautiful scenery and enjoy the peace. We stayed all day at these lakes, it was just perfect. Great memories."
"The lakes are close to Jasper making them convenient to visit, but other than for fishing, canoeing, hiking, and best of all early morning photo ops, the Lakes may not merit going out of your way to visit. Then again, if you're already in Jasper, go check them out at about 7:00am for coffee in the Pyramid Lake restaurant and then take some nice photos."
"Gorgeous smaller lakes in the Jasper area. Lots of hiking nearby as well as boating, fishing and hanging out by the water. Great for animal viewing as well. Saw a beautiful elk on the road to these lakes."
Great place to visit for the scenery and beauty. Wonderful for photographers who like reflection shots. Near Jasper. Elk and moose are sometimes seen here.
I went there early one morning when it was sunny and the reflection of the Pyramid Mountain on the lake with unruffled waters was awesome. Very isolated and quiet spot. The next day I was there again and it was raining - a beautiful sight - caught a glimpse of a cinnamon (black bear) chomping at the bushes!
"Regarding Pyramid Lake, arrive early before the tour bus crowds take the place over. The views and tranquility are amazing. Patricia Lake does not appear to have decent public access. :("
"Both lakes offer vantage points for sunset and sunrise. Pyramid is also wonderful for canoeing (you can rent canoes and platform-kayaks). Nice hikes around Pyramid Lake, but be sure to have bear spray with you at all times."
"Pyramid lake is one of Jasper's hidden gems. Most tourists don't ever come here, and most organized tours don't even hear about it!Pyramid lake is a fantastic place. Bring some picnic food, maybe some blankets, and spend a late afternoon on the Pyramid Lake Island. There are picnic tables here too. The backdrop of Pyramid Mountain over the still waters of the lake at sunset is just spectacular. Looking the other way, Mt Edith Cavell reflecting in the lake will take your breath away. Stay until the stars come out, listen for the call of the loon. You won't regret it! If you dare and want to go for a dip, use the right shore of the island to wade in - anywhere else you'll brake your legs on the slippery rocks! I almost did! Mornings can be majestic too, with fog rolling in and out, but the best time to admire the red colors of Pyramid Mountain is sundown. Just don't tell everyone else about this place!"
"Very peaceful area with beautiful views. Others reported wildlife on the road, but we didn't see any. Close to town but with a woodsy, country feel."
"Drove up the Pyramid/Patricia Lake road to take a couple of short walks in brisk winter weather. Alberta's winter sunshine is at it's best when you get to be in the crisp, clean mountain air. From the Pyramid Lake parking lot, we walked the short distance to Pyramid Lake Island. It is a magical place at anytime of year, but during the winter, you will miss all the crowds."
We enjoyed a evening trip out to Pyramid Island. It was busy when we first got there but the people cleared out and we were able to enjoy our time out on the island. We got some great pictures. Parking is limited and the road tends to be crowded by the resort. Scenery is beautiful and we saw some Elk along the road on our way back to town.
"The view at both lakes is phenomenal. There is also many activities my favourate being the boat rentals at Pyramid lake. Their prices are so low my wife thought I was lying. I rented their 8 person electricly propelled ""Fun Cruiser"" for 89$/hr! No boat licence required, just a 5min crash course. They also have a electric ""Fun Cruiser"" which rents for 59$/hr and seats 2. This was the highlight of my latest trip to Jasper."
"Very nice lake to go for a row.... We went on the last long weekend, so it was very crowded. But we rented a boat for an hour and had a nice quiet time enjoying the beautiful sights. Be sure to walk the trails or check out the Lil island on pyramid lake"
Leave the car at home and enjoy a hike with some great views. Took us about 80 minutes to walk up to pyramid island and then sat there for a while enjoying pyramid mountain and other views. Wind was whistling across the lake so we weren't warm enough to sit there for too long. We had a great lunch at the resort restaurant while watching people canoeing. Half was down we found another route to Jasper which brought you out to the east side of town. Steeper (but ok as it was the descent!) and gave some amazing views of Edith and other mountains along the Rockies.
We recently stopped here while visiting Jasper. The is some really nice hiking trails and places to stop and view different areas of the lake. Not a lot of parking so try to go in the early morning or late afternoon. Very small gift shop and is really overpriced. Most items are available in Jasper.
We spent a few hours canoeing around pyramid lake one warm day. Lovely and relaxing in a very laid back atmosphere. We did have to wait about 20 minutes to rent a canoe since there were many people who came out to play on the beautiful lake that warm summer day.
"Beautiful hike with a nice payoff at the top. We had a great day to hike with perfect temps and bright sunshine. Go clockwise on trail 2B to the top and follow it all the way around to the bottom with the track back via 2f and 2g trails which merge ultimately into the 2 trail back to the start. Our start was the parking area past where the resort was so maybe another 1 - 2k up the road from there, near the Pyramid Lake island bridge. Super nice. The first 30% of the hike climbs the mountain and will get your heart pumping. After that it is mostly downhill and scenic."
"We had a picnic on Pyramid Lake Island. Keep going on the road past the resort and you will find this cool little island with a walkway out to it. Great views of the surrounding mountains, especially Pyramid."
"Short drive up a mountain from the town of Jasper, they didn't charge me for 30 mins of the paddleboat use, just took a pre-auth on the credit card for 25 dollars.So it definitely is an affordable way to soak up the sights of the area from the water."
"I did know about the lakes from the guide books I was reading, but thought, o.k. if we have time! However, when we went up on the tram and saw them from above, I knew I wanted to see them up close!! So we went next morning, just beautiful! The trip to the lakes from Jasper is an easy 10 minute drive so, if you are in the area, go.I thought Patricia Lake was more picturesque, and has easier access from the road. For Pyramid, make a short stop at the hotel area, and after that take the loop hike to the point that you can at least see the island, which is further down on the road."
"Took my girlfriend out to the island on pyramid lake, and at a quiet spot on the tip of the island made her my fiance. Perfect spot when nobody is around. Beautiful views."
"Blue clear water, amazing mountain view and you can rent a canoe or boat to paddle. Great morning exercise.
Except there was this stench that morning, a sewerage smell."
two of many lakes around the area. Perhaps you become attuned to the beauty of this stunning place. a lovely walk in the late afternoon provided a beautiful backdrop
Amazing views from this peaceful spot behind jasper. Great lake for kayaks/canoes and great paved paths for biking (for those not so adventurous....)
"We saw a bear and a cow moose just before Patricia Lake, where we stayed for 3 days. Both lakes were beautiful! They are located about 5 miles out of Jasper so my wife and I liked that. It is very tranquil out there and both lakes are beautiful. Pyramid Lake had some pretty neat looking cabins with a restaurant, that would have come in handy."
"the lake was lovely, for hire canoes, kayaks, rowing boats and pedaloes. 1hr 30 gives you time to paddle round lake. also nice cycle and hike trails. restaurant at hotel but didn't try as didn't seem to cater for coffee break clientele. nice pic nic spot on pyramid lake island and some fantastic views. get there early though, as we were leaving at 12 people were queuing at rental desk."
These two lakes are above the town of Jasper and can be visited by car or they can be reached by one of the numerous town hiking trails. Boats can be hired on Pyramid Lake which is worth doing. Pyramid has several beaches.
"We love Pyramid Lake and the reflections of the mountain behind at sunset so we took our son and family up for an evening BBQ. No mosquitoes, lovely warm air, and a perfect sunset. To make it even better, we were visited by a family of elk -- a couple of females, some calves, and one male with velvet antlers. They played in the water, and lay down near our picnic table, and totally ignored us. So we enjoyed their company.Normally we walk down to the Pyramid Lake island which is also a pleasant experience, but we didn't do it this time. 'You can't match the scenery and beauty of this site anywhere in the world!"
"These were pretty lakes in the forest, worth visiting particularly before or after horseback riding in the area. You can rent road boats, canoes, or paddle boats and it is relaxing to be out on Pyramid Lake. However, road circles it so you still have road noise and don't feel a total wilderness experience. Nice short walk to island with picnic tables at Pyramid lake for more views, but used heavily and crowded."
Pyramid lake has a little island which went to visit. very quaint and a gorgeous setting...... the area has so much beauty and serenty
"The drive to Pyramid Lake is super cool and there is just so much to see and do. The beach was sandy and a lot of fun! My family also walked around on ""the island."" The views from each side of the island was serene and calming. It was so beautiful! We also rented some row boats and paddle boats and had an awesome time just enjoying the lake! This was one of our favorites in Jasper National Park!"
"this is not a must see stop, else definitely go and see this lake, all the lakes around here are beautiful...."
my daughter and husband went horseback riding at the stables at Pyramid Lake and they said it was a great ride the guide they had was awesome my husband said and the pictures they bought was great
Love Pyramid Lake. It is a beautiful place to walk and the views are breath-taking. love this place.
If you're in Jasper and have an afternoon to spare make sure you visit Pyramid and Patricia Lakes. It's only a short drive from Jasper and the views are magnificent. Take a walk along the lakeshore and enjoy the scenery...and consider taking a swim in the clear Water.
"These two lakes are so close to Jasper (5 min) that most people do not visit and instead head off to Maligne and other more exotic locations. As a result, you have amazing seclusion and great facilities at Pyramid Lodge with bike, canoe and kayak rentals to go exploring in."
"These lake are wonderful and just a short drive outside Jasper town. The mountain scenery is fantastic and we were able to take photographs of the mountains reflecting in the lakes - absolutely beautiful images. Our visit was enhanced by the fact that we were able to watch two deer drinking in Patricia Lake - a wonderful, natural sight."
"The mountain is different to most in the area, because of the colourful striations in the rock face. Different light conditions produce different intensities to the colours, so the mountain has an ever changing look about it. It's reflected in the lake below and you can take some amazing photographs at the various viewing points along the road. There are several picnic tables dotted about, and even a couple of small ""beaches"" to enjoy. A great place to visit, whatever the weather."
a short drive outside of the town and just beautiful--especially in the still of early morning. highly recommend
"We found these lakes to be average. They are not much different than some of the others around the area, other than they appear to be a bit more secluded.You can rent a variety of non-motorized boats there for about $35 an hour (varies by type of boat)."
"found this by accident but what a lovely lake, went to the island and it was breath taking, found out that the friends of jasper take care of this area, great wedding location....."
This was a beautiful spot for renting kayaks. We were beginners but had no trouble maneuvering around the lake for an hour. The lakes are close to Jasper and afford nature walks and gorgeous scenary.
"we hiked in the trails here and saw loons on the lakes as well as two black bears while hiking eating the loden berries. they left us alone as we did them ,but were surprised they were there as there are horse trails all around and quite a few people.you can just meander around and eat lunch at one of the picnic tables and do a leisurely walk or go off with your pack for the day and explore the trails.right north of jasper a mile or two ; easy to get to , park and free"
We were encouraged to see these two lakes by friends. We really enjoyed the walk out to Pyramid Island and our picnic by the lake. We couldn't get to stop and walk around the Patricia Lake because it only seemed to be open to those staying at the accommodation there?
"If you stayed up at one of the places there on the lakes, it would be pretty cool but for a short 10 minute loop drive just outside of Jasper, it is a nice ride. The M Canyon falls is well worth the trip and about as far and a wow look at even just the first bridge!"
"Was very disappointed, poor picnic facilities...picnic table where you can't even see the lake. A small beach or two though if you have young kids who want to cool off a bit...don't go out of your way though."
"Located just off Jasper main street and a short drive away, these two lakes are very quiet, still and beautiful very serene, well worth a visit."
We had a lovely suite at Pyramid Lake Resort - make sur you spend the extra bit to enjoy fully. The restaurant is great and the scenery is magnificent.
"We have been here several times and always make it a must to stop for lunch here. Not only is the lake and the mountain view beautiful, the restaurant overlooks it and serves quite wonderful food! Always great and friendly service. We had a lovely walk here and my daughter did some sketches of the beautiful mountains. Sooooo peaceful and serene."
We spend nearly half a day at this lake. A beautiful and peaceful place to visit. Very scenic place.Loved it.
These lakes are breath-taking with the reflections of the mountains behind in the clear blue water. Don't miss them!
"We didn't have to walk very far to see elk and a black bear cub. Easy hike, takes about 3 hours and the trail started not far from out hotel."
"We did not spend a whole lot of time here but greatly enjoyed driving round the lake which gave us the views of the lake, kayaks and the mountains behind. Very nice."
Visited these in the evening of our last day in Jasper. I was so sad trip was over but got the most amazing photographs of a setting sun over the lakes. Lovely seats out on edge of water on a wooden decking from which one can admire the beauty of nature
A great place to visit during the day as well. Take the wooden bridge on to the island. We ran into an informal park wedding taking place. Great place for couples to take a walk together. Awesome place to be with yourself or read a book in solitude as well.
If you're a mountain biker who loves riding on the paved roads then you might like biking around these two lakes. They are both beautiful and offer great views of the mountain range
Very nice view. giid for hiking. We were there on a rainy day so we missed the main adventure. The island on the lake has an uteresting history
"Close to Jasper town centre,so easy 5 minute ride up there,if the lakes are ""flat"" splendid photo shots,little too popular for my liking"
These two lakes are right outside the main part of Jasper and they are particularly nice to visit late in the day and at sunset. We sat on a bench by the water and dreamed a half an hour away.
I liked the availability of parking and bathroom facilities. To get to Patricia Lake can be confusing as there are private bungalows where the main sign is. It is only after you get there and ask at reception that they tell you that the path begins at the nearby horse stables a few minutes drive away. Otherwise the walk is not bad and the views are beautiful.
"We took an evening drive out to see these, stunning location and worth the drive. The water was so still and reflective."
"Easy to find from the town of Jasper, the paved road that takes you to the farthest lake - Pyramid Lake - is very picturesque and travelling mid week was perfect as there were few other tourists around to fight for parking spots with. The walking path on the island at Pyramid lake has some really interesting placards and info boards. The water was perfectly glass like and the sun was brilliantly shining on that day. It was a very nice day to take a walk."
These places are just perfect for a picnic or a family getaway! The scenery is amazing and relaxing! You feel connected with mother nature!
We took our kids on an all day adventure to the mountains and stopped here to have lunch on the beach. Kids loved it and even went in the water. The views of the mountains and of the lake was amazing.
We went up quite late in the evening the the lakes were just beautiful. Got some lovely photos on the island. The mosquitoes were ferocious and swarmed our car when we got in! We saw some elks on the way back
"Rent canoes here at the resort, take a trip to Pyramid Lake Island. Don't forget your GPS to geocache!!"
"A very nice hike at Patricia lake. We parked our car at the stables and then followed the marked path. The lake is breathtaking! How amazing. We could see rainbowtrout in the very clearwater. And loons in the slough. The rest of the hike is pretty to. This is also a trail that horses use, so do not wear youre sunday shoes, horse**** everywhere. The walk is not difficult."
"Beautiful untouched (mostly) and just minutes from town. We decided on this trip that we would stay at ""Pyramid Lake Resort"". We were not disappointed. Beautiful, quiet area right in our back yard (almost). Will definitely be visiting here on next trip whether or not we decide to stay at the resort again."
"Really I don't want to give an review of this place because I don't want too much traffic to these gems. My friends and I come up here for BBQ's and a night of camp fire and just plain hang out chat in the great outdoors. So if you are a coming to party and get loud, this is not recommended for you."
We always take the time to drive to Pyramid Lake every time we are in Jasper. One of the main reasons is to see Elk that usually line the road there. Once at Pyramid Lake you can take the steps to the trail that leads to the bridge to get to the small island that brings you face to face with Pyramid Mountain. Great landscapes and mountain ranges to photograph. This area is also known wolf territory and it is advised to stay away during dawn and dusk when they are hunting for food. Obey all signs with regards to wolves for your own safety.
Beautiful & quiet the morning we went. No one was around. I loved the bridge to the mini island - and the benches would be a nice place to sit in the summer. The road is not ideal - tons of turns - but worth the drive.
"Snowy, windy roads, little scary in the springtime. Drive all the way to the end of the road at the 2nd lake and you find a little island, which you can cross over a wooden bridge to get to. Looks great for a picnic spot in the summer/during warmer weather."
Breathtaking scenery! Lovely nature walk from parking lot to small island on shore of Pyramid Lake via foot bridge. Stopped at Restaurant/pub there for diner and drinks and took in the scenery.
"These two lakes are what the Rockies are all about. Fabulously positioned and peaceful area.
Believe me folks when you visit this area and these two lakes it WILL take your breath away"
stayed in a cabin and enjoyed the crisp air and solitude. Fabulously beautiful area. Can't wait to go back
"From Jasper its a very short drive up to Pyramid and Patricia Lakes. The road is easy, and it's not very far. The views are fantastic and for photographers there's no end to the great shots that you can take, any time of the year. Also on the road up you will find riding stables conveniently located next to the road, and there are hiking trails everywhere. Get your hiking map and off you go. Enjoy Canada at it's best."
"We Skied up the Pyramid Fire Road. It was a difficult climb, but worth the effort! The trail was only partly groomed, but we are told that it does get groomed regularly. Also, if you have dogs, its best to ski during the late morning or early afternoon (and bring bear spray) as wolves are known to be lurk around the trail at dusk and dawn."
"We visit patricia lake on a wildlife tour, we didn't saw much of wildlife on the tour but the sinery and this place is great, they even have a huge lodge super neat, must be great for the summer time, I have visited on the winter and the lake was frozen and they have an skating ring on the lake"
"This place takes my breath away, quiet, beautiful, this is nature at its best. It makes me feel sooo small."
"There are fire pits at Pyramid & Patricia Lake. The fire pits at Pyramid are right on the lake, and have an amazing view of Pyramid Mountain and Pyramid Resort and are also pretty private. The fire pits at Patricia are not private and don't have as nice of a view. You can also rent kayaks, canoes and paddle boats at Pyramid Lake. It's a very nice drive!"
"We love the walk around the little island on this Lake, it is beautiful, with Pyramid mountain in the background. You can also see Mt. Edith Cavell from here.We never new that this gem existed, we had been coming to Jasper for years, well decades actually. Then one rainy day (Jasper has lots of them), we decided to see what else Jasper had to offer and we found Pyramid Lake.Actually Patricia is nice too, but Pyramid has this wonderful walk on a little island which you reach by a bridge. It takes about 1/2 or so to walk around it and offers all kinds of views."
The lake was cleaned in a different way for skating and taking in the excellant scenery. Visiting mid week was very nice and quiet. Going on to the island we were the only ones there.
"Went up to Pyramid Lake and what a fantastic scene, a small tractor was in the process of sculpting two ice hockey fields and making sure the ice rink lap track was smooth. You could easily stay for days just looking at the scenery. Awesome just awesome."
"We stayed at Jasper for three days and visited Patricia and Pyramid Lakes on each day- wildlife watching, snowshoeing and just wandering around on the frozen lake, taking in the mountain views, watching dog sledding, etc. It's both beautiful and wild- we saw fresh wolf tracks in the forest, though the wolves themselves kept out of sight!"
"We stayed at Patricia Lakes it was beautiful weather and so peaceful.
Just love to go back again. The accommodation was cosy and the Elk were great."
During our trip here the day was very cold and we experienced a number of snow falls en-route which made walking difficult at times. Last time we were here we meet some very inquisitive chipmunks in the trees close by. Great time !
It is a bit tricky to find these lakes from Jasper - the signage could be a bit better. Careful on the roads as they are mountainous and can be icy. Worth a look
"Well worth the visit to Pyramid and Parricia Lakes, simply stunning on a clear day! Short drive from downtown Jasper."
Not a lot to see here but it was nice and quiet for a brief visit. Some nice houses on the lakeside to look at
"On the spur of the moment, we decided to follow the signs to Patricia Lake. Compared to other lakes in the Rockies, it is probably fair to say that these are not the most impressive but read into the history of Patricia Lake - wherelse can boast of having been the testing ground for a ice aircraft carrier during WW2? Not quite what you expect to read on a road side information panel!"
These lakes are located only a short drive out of town. You leave civilization quickly and are in a very beautiful area. Pyramid Lake is above Jasper to the north.
Nice drive but we only had a short amount of time as it was our last day before heading to Edmonton. Spend more time at Pyramid Mountain next time! Got a great photo at the lake before we headed onwards but is a definite on the to do list for next time!
"Very beautiful and a great spot to just sit and enjoy the scenery. You can rent canoes as well as walk around the Pyramid island there. The Island has benches all over it, each one with a spectacular view. There is also a shelter so you can bring people and food for a picnic."
The waters are placid and tranquil. You defiantly want a canoe or kayak to glide on the mirror perfect water. Great trails nearby.
"The view is lovely and Pyramid Peak dominates the township, so it is good to see the lakes and the peaks that form the background to them. Because they are only 10 minutes away from town, they are popular and heavily used, so I am glad that we didn't plan to spend more time there!"
It is worth driving out of Jasper to visit these lakes. The view from the parking lot is beautiful and it was nice to just sit and take it all in.
This was a nice little lake with mountain views. The best part is I was the only one stopped - no hoards of tourists. Very close to Jasper & worth the short drive.
"These two lakes are okay to look at. They do not turn a beatiful color like some of the other Lakes . But it is a relaxing place to look around. The main reason I liked these lakes is because the view of the mountains are great at Pyramid Lake. We stayed at Pyramid Lake resort and it has a excellent view of Pyramid lake right out your window. We did also see some wild life in this area. We saw a mother black bear and her two cubs just minutes away from Pyramid lake. We also saw some Elk in this same area. We went September 1 ,2012."
"After hiking in the morning in Jasper, we wanted a more relaxing afternoon. We picked up some sandwiches from Patricia's and headed out to the lakes. Lunch was on Pyramid Lake. After a short hike on Pyramid Island, we headed for the resort to rent a canoe. The views of the surrounding mountains from the lake are spectacular!"
We parked and took the little hike out to the island at Pyramid lake. Easy level walk only about 1/2 k. Upon our return we went back to the Pyramid cafe and had lunch. Food was just ok but the view was excellent.
We arrived here late afternoon/early evening and there was no one else around. Plenty of parking. The lakes are lovely.
We went as part of a tour and if the morning is still the reflections on the lakes is amazing. Well worth the visit and a visit at night is recommended if you like seeing stars on a clear night.
"go to Lake Annette, it's the bluest and best !!!
Skip the restaurant at Pyramid Lake Lodge, it's awful !"
"Pyramid mountain is the most colourful and beautiful mountains in Jasper (apart from Mount Edith Cavelle) in my opinion. We go as a family to rent a boat on Pyramid lake and spend the day suntanning and toodling about hugging the curves of this lake. Or I take my artist materials and sit at one of the many picnic sites for a day of watercolour painting of Pyramid Mountain. The lake is perfect for swimming and you must walk to what we call 'Echo Island' as when you walk to the very end of the island and yell out, it will echo back to you."
"Patricia and Pyramid lakes can be viewed by car, or you can hike around them or even jump in a canoe. Canoeing on Pyramid is lovely when the lake is like glass, I did not canoe on Patricia. Hiking on the Pyramid bench is fantastic but this year I didn't go too far as there are wolves in the area and I had my dog with me. If you do hike take bear spray. The views are lovely, lots of wildlife to be seen so do be careful."
"I can't say much more than is in the title. There is a restaurant out there. We were told to walk out on the bridge to the island as it would be scenic, but it was a dreary day, so we skipped that. The highlight were bears maybe 1 km from town."
Nice familly place for fishing and swimming. We went a few times as everyone like the place and it is a short distance drive from the village.
"Bountiful views, convenient picnic facilities and parking, nice trails and lots of wildlife, namely elks. Definitely visit the Pyramid Island on the Pyramid Lake."
"Lakes are accessible by car, driving north from Jasper. The roads are well demarcated. Very peaceful location. The place can be crowded as there are several hotels in the area."
You can't drive around both lakes as i was hoping. One of them you can only drive around a very small corner of it. The other you get to see a little more. But there is a riding stable we didn't have time to do on the way in from jasper.
Great place for a good walk. Make sure you cross the foot bridge onto the island and see pyramid mountain. Nice place just to sit quietly and soak it all up.
"We took the trip to the lakes on the recommendation of our lunch waitress in Jasper. It was a nice drive and the lakes were surprisingly close to town. On the road to the lake I saw one of, if not the biggest, elk I have ever seen. The lakes would be a great place for a picnic."
"While driving in the area, keep a look out for wildlife. We saw quite a few Elk as well as some birds.
The beaches were well attended by many families all having a lovely time."
One of my favorite spots in the Jasper area is the island on Pyramid Lake. There are often weddings there. The bridge going over provides a great view of the shores and there are always lots of little fish to watch. The island is a great place to stop for a picnic lunch.
"These lake are very closed. They are also very closed to the road so it's easy to find them. The Rockies are around. Patricia Lake is a simple lake, nothing special. Pyramid Lake has a small island name pyramid island. If the weather is clear you will enjoy the scenery of Pyramid Mount reflection on the lakes."
"Really nice drive round to the area from Jasper - drive slowly and keep your eyes open as there is plenty of wildlife to see - elk, bear, etc. The actuall lakes as extremely pretty and very different at each time of the day with different lighting - a short drive so make the effort and take a couple of short trips round to see it."
"There were nice views -- but the competition was so stiff, I'm afraid I can't give these stops a ""must-see"" rating. But nice for a quick photo stop."
"Rowing / kayaking was fun and a nice way to appreciate the scenery though not cheap.
The short hike the day before through the woods beside the lake was alright but nothing special."
Take the time whilst in Jasper to have a look at the island on Pyramid lake. A 5 minute walk gives you an outstanding view of Pyramid mountain
"Just a few km outside Jasper, these lakes were beautiful and peaceful. We walked over the walkway to Pyramid Island which was full of wonderful photo opportunities. Just one of the reasons why we love beautiful Jasper so much!"
"This was a nice cycle ride from Jasper. By all other standards the lake is very pretty, although it pales in comparison to the lakes in and around Lake Louise."
Close to Jasper. Clse to town- maybe 10 min drive round trip. Pretty little lakes but all the other beauty in the area dwarfs this area in view.
"Get there before 9AM. We did. No tour buses, loons calling to each other across the lake. We walked out onto the little bridge, sat by the water's edge and enjoyed the sounds of nature."
This is one area which you may find bears walking around at down or dusk - we did not see any during our two trips there.
"Wonderful turquoise lakes !
Nice to walk around, have a picnic and relax !
The water colour is really impressive !"
I think Pyramid Lake may have been my favourite spot to visit while touring the Rockies. The views were awesome. I loved it there! I so wish I had been able to stay at the resort there.
"We were so impressed with the beauty of Patricia Lake! Some of our prettiest pictures were taken here - with the lovely mirror image that this still lake produced! We saw it by horseback, which was great fun!"
My wife and I love to canoe this lake. I really don't want too many people to know that it's one of the best lakes to canoe in Jasper! We've spent the whole day canoeing around the lake checking out the many mountain streams that feed into Pyramid and finished the day with a glass of wine on the deck at the Pyramid lake lodge.
"A must if you are in Jasper. Saw Elk, Beevers, Eagles and more, stunning views and you must go out to the Island on Pyramid Lake which is accessible across a bridge - heave with bells on."
"A one hour hike from Jasper to Pyramid Lake brought us to a quiet, calm lake with a small resort and rental activities. The staff at the lodge was extremely patient and friendly. We enjoyed a canoe rental around the lake, a peaceful and serene experience with a wonderful mountain background. It's definitely a must-do activity on your next trip to Jasper."
"lovely scenery, lake and mountains, with a little island, restaurant could be open a little longer, and the shop could have more in it. Great place to hire a boat, and mess about on the water."
This place was easily accessible from Jasper Town. We found adequate parking. Bring bug spray as the mosquitoes were fierce. We walked a short distance across a bridge to an island. Pyramid Mountain rose beyond the lake.
Patricia lake was like glass and breathtaking with the mountains in the background. Drove to Pyramid lake later in the day but was windy so I can't compare them apples to apples.
We saw this place in the winter! Gorgeous! The night skies in this area are amazing...surreal. Take some hot beverages and warm gear and include an amazing hike.
Great scenery! Very relaxing! A nice little getaway and mellow hikes.
when we were there it was calm and hot so perfect weather
Nice place to visit. Not so crowded. Did the paddle boat at Pyramid lake....but pointless....cannot get you anywhere. Rowing might be better. Morning provides a better view than the evening.
"If you have a car, it's a quick drive from town, however, there are a lot more beautiful places to see if your time is limited"
During our visit the lakes were calm and breathtaking. To bad the mosquitos were so hungry
Travelled to both lakes which are almost side by side. Pyramid lake provided a place to stay and a restaurant.
We did some walking around Pyramid lake and it was beautiful but almost got eaten alive by mosquitos. And all the stores in town were sold out of bug spray. We would have taken a boat out on the lake if we had spray.
Beautiful turquoise colored placid lake on which you can see the reflection of the snow covered peaks in the background even in summer.
"Nice lakes, nothing special. The pyramid mountain above is impressive."
"You can find a place to stay just a little away from the town site. There is hiking, mountain biking, kayaking and beautiful scenery."
We stayed at the hotel right in front of Pyamid Lake so we had a gorgeous view of the lake and mountains. There are boats to rent and a great restaurant right in front of the lake with more great views.
"This little walk is a nice short stroll. We walked onto the one little island, and checked out the dates carved into the old camp building."
"close to town,good for a hike or a drive. Nice little bridge over to the island. Bring Insect repellent!"
Only if you too much time to spare in Jasper national park.
"We stayed nearby for two nights so we visited both of these lakes in the mornings and evenings. Don't miss the drive to the end of the road, park, and walk over the bridge to Pyramid Island. We captured some amazing photos of both lakes. The reflections were breath-taking!"
Beautiful lakes. There was a wedding in progress when we were at Pyramid Lake. Good views. Relaxing.
Only a short distance from town - very scenic even very late on a summer evening
"These two pretty lakes can be accessed by a short road, directly from the Town of Jasper. There is a lodge along the road. There is a nice walking trail at Pyramid Island. When we were there Parks Canada staff put up impressive signs warning that a pack of 8 wolves hunted this area. This subspecies of wolf consists of quite large animals, big enough to take down mature elk. But the signs did not stop dog owners from letting their little lap dogs run off leash down the trail, just tempting the wolves to eat them."
"My family and I took the Sundog tour of Pyramid Lake. The tour begins at 6pm, where you are picked up by your guide (ours was Chuck), along with the other passengers. We had 8 on our tour.We were then taken to Pyramid Lake, fitted with lifejackets and oars, and then provided with the dos and don'ts of canoeing. Next came a lesson on rowing.After practicing for a bit, we were then assigned a seat in the canoe. We then entered the canoe and headed out onto the lake.It was quite peaceful and serene at that hour. We did manage to see a bald eagle on the hunt, an osprey desperately searching for fish, 2 loons and their next, and rain clouds threatening to open up any minute. Our tour lasted about 2 hours on the lake and 1 hour for the lesson and drive to and from. You don't need any experience to enjoy this outdoor adventure and I would definitely do it again."
"We spotted a lake a little off the highway so we stopped and took a short walk to Pyramid Lake. What a peaceful place.The water was like a mirror and color unbelievable.As noted by another reviewer, bring and drink and some food, perhaps a good book, but sit, relax and enjoy.There were mosquitos present but surprisingly, especially for me, they did not bite."
"We had the best time every, so relaxing. You can start of at the island were there a bridge to walk across. Then go to the resort were you can rent a boat, after the boat ride you can stop at there restaurant which was amazing food. Then on the other side of the lake there is a beach with nice sand to relax at."
"Nobody's fault, this is just nature, but full of mosquitoes. Found very interesting that Diving in one of the lakes lets you see remains of a second world war artifact."
"Just choose a nice day, sit quietly and look at the lake and the surrounding mountains. Bring along a sandwich and a thermos of your favourite hot drink - relax and let the scenery do more to lower your blood pressure than any medication known to man!"
"These lakes were close to Jasper (10 minutes or so drive) but compared to other lakes or attractions in the area, it's just ok. Another good thing besides proximity to Jasper is that it's not very crowded. If you have time to spare, since it's close to town it might be worth the trip and might provide a relaxing place. But if you are short in time, just skip it and you won't miss much."
"We love spending time at Pyramid Lake it is incredibly beautiful and very quiet. Go past the hotel to walk out on the ""island"" it is worth it!"
"you can't help seeing the lakes and mountains, every corner delivers another exceptional view...the lakes are different colours because of the sediment in them."
Both lakes are very close to Jasper and so easily accessible. Pyramid lake is ramped (from memory) so is accessible for wheelchair users. There's a decent picnic area over the short bridge to the island. All in all it's a very pleasant way to while away an hour or two.
Saw the Loon bird which is normally heard in the evening.
"Please visit Pyramid Island because it is a really neat island. You cross a wooden bridge and walk around to various viewpoints. It is a short walk, but very beautiful. On the wooden bridge you can see the various mountains."
These two lakes are very close to town and one of them had canoe rentals available and some cabins next to it. Color is blue/green. Drive to the lakes were nice.
Peaceful blue water with great access and easy parking
"Both lakes in quiet surroundings, and good points to start on hiking trails."
"If you want to see a Common Loon and an impressive rock go here. Don't expect a restaurant or shop, it is totally unspoilt."
visited the pyramid island for a picnic views out of this world. island only small but excellent photo opportunities worth the visit dont miss it
"We visited on an extremely wet day in May, but were not disappointed. The views, in spite of a heavy mist were tremendous and the general atmosphere was wonderful. This is definitely a bird spotters haven. Well worth a visit. I just wish the weather had been kinder."
I have been coming to Jasper for many years for little weekend get aways and just recently came across this attraction. WOW soooo close to town and what a place to just go and relax. I think there should be more advertising for thia place. I bet very many people dont know about it.
"We did canooing
Really good views of area And mountains"
"Lovely spot to admire lake and mountains. Well worth walking on past the lakeside to Pyramid Island.
Another lovely location in the Rockies, easily accessible by car from Jasper."
"Very nice to visit, along the way you may encounter bears and elks!"
Patricia Lake has some great history that makes it special. We enjoyed the walk on the island at Pyramid Lake. There are picnic tables there and it is a great place to enjoy a meal and take in the views of the lake and the waterfowl.
Nice scenic drive. You can often see wildlife in the area. Both lakes offer opportunities for scenic photos - especially when the light causes perfect reflection on the lake. Pyramid Mtn makes a lovely reflection. Be sure to walk out onto the little island.
"We came early morning just before the boats got into the water, the mirror reflection of the snowcapped mountains was just breath taking, I was glad to get up and venture into the cold morning for some landscape /seascape photograph-- tip bring a graduated Neutral Density filter to balance out the snowcapped mountains with the water scene.Then wait a little while longer as the weekend paddlers come in voila you even have a great photo -Op here. Bring gloves it gets cold! Bring coffee in a thermos. there was a lodge at the Pyramid lake- guess food is available."
"The short drive up to Pyramid Like is worth it, even in winter. Cross country skiing around the lake occurs.
The historic gazebo, on the island, makes a nice stop for a hot soup lunch."
There are lots of wonderful trails in the area in addition to the turquoise lakes and pink Pyramid mountain. It is a very beautiful area only a few minutes drive from the town center.
"Water beautiful and clear, area is kept very tidy, no rubbish around, be even lovelier in the summer."
Short drive to amazing views and picture ops. Well worth the time to see. Pyramid Lakes offers services so can be a longer stop if desired.
Lakes were thawed at the beginning of May. Easy walking path to the island. Nice place for a picnic.
this is where we staid and will go back again one day soon. a dreamy location
"Beautiful scenery, and we were able to take a wheelchair around the trail without any difficulty. Lots of picture opportunities to take breathtaking pictures"
We couldn't get enough of the absolute beauty and have so much video footage it will take at least a year to edit it all.
These to lakes are so close to each other that it is easy to visit both at the same time. Pyramid lake has a car park with picnic tables too so it is handy if you want to sit and take in the view. Since we visited in April it was practically empty and we could wander around happily without any crowds like some other popular lakes ( although not sure what the case would be in the summer!) Patricia and pyramid lakes both have cabins to rent for a night and in future i would definately consider spending more time there!
"Go beyond Jasper townsite, follow the directions to Pyramid Lake and travel a slow and winding road to these lakes, the history of Patricia, the beauty of Pyramid Mountain above Pyramid Lake, the man made beach at Pyramid Lake, the Island (people hold weddings here, you will see why), the short hikes - so much to see, so many memories to hold on to till next time."
We travelled up here from our accomidation the lakes were froxen but stunning views. No northern lights though
This was Beautful. Very pretty water color. lots of wildlife.
"My wife and I were camping in the area on a holiday when we decided to go visit Pyramid Lake one eveing. We were tired and it had been a long day of driving.Stopped in at pyramid lake with some food we had bought from the local Grocey Store in Jasper, all fresh food which was awesome. They had little awesome fire pits and it was just awesome.It rained a little bit making our Salmon nice and smokey tasting and for some reason even though the rain was cold - Pyramid Lake was very warm and had this warm misty hover over it. Very easy to swim in the middle of the evening. Amazing place to visit if your in the area."
Hiked around the lake and over to the island. Watched the pentathlon in progress
Fell in love with it and will be getting married there in the fall.
The lakes offer canoes to rent but you could also just walk or hike. There is a lot of wild life on the drive up and around the lake. The trails are well marked and signage information is very good
"Enjoyed Jasper in January family festivities, dog sledding, games and snowshoeing."
"The view was amazing as we cross country skied along the embankment. Our guide with Alpine Art tours stopped to show and interpret us animal tracks in the snow, as well as teach us proper technique. We even saw some dog sledding."
"Pyramid Lake is below Pyramid Mountain, and it's just a short drive up the hill from Jasper. There is a resort there, but drive past it to the far end of the road. Park, and walk out across a wooden bridge to a small island, and walk through the forest. You will find many spectacular views all the way around its shores.Accessible on easy, level trails, for all ages. Wheelchair accessible."
Both lakes are pretty and good for small boats. We didn't go out on them as it was pretty cold and windy during our stay.
"We didn't to a lot of wandering, but they were definitely worth the short drive! So incredibly beautiful!"
"Beautiful scenery, view of the lakes. You can go onto pyramid island and view all angles of mountain beauty. A must see for a first time goer .... we go every time we go to Jasper and it never gets old."
This is a nice drive or stroll which is well sign posted
"Pyramid lake is a beautiful place to canoe. You feel like you are on top of the world. Bring your own or rent.
. PS Restaurant at Pyramid lake is expensive...."
"Although we had slightly overcast weather, these lakes are still beautiful. Being fall, the colours on the trees and snow on the mountain tops provided gorgeous photos. Walked over bridge and just sat and took it all in. We walked through the bush to the other side of the island and were lucky enough to see a moose with her young calf on the other side of the lake. You don't need a lot of time here, but it is worth having a look."
"Pyramid lake is beautiful, very picturesque. The blue-green glacier water is just what you see in the postcards. A worthwhile stop if you are passing through or staying in the park for a while"
Didn't even know Pyramid Lake had an island! Was a pleasant surprise.
"One of the most beautiful places in Jasper is Pyramid lake, Pyramid island, and Pyramid mountain. Don't leave Jasper without visiting them; try to go early in the morning to see the sun reflecting on the mountain...stunning!"
These lakes are nice but not really anything to write home about. There are better lakes to enjoy.
really nice walk through the area and nice bridge to the island
"The lakes are an excellent place to relax and get away from it all despite being very close to jasper.
You can hire a canoe or just walk along the shore line admiring the reflections of pyramid mountain."
"gorgeous area - clean, well kept, nice wide pathways and easy to get to from the parking lot. Lots of washrooms and signs that explain the area."
"The lakes - and there surrounding mountains forest - are so easy to get to from Jasper. Go by car, or bike, or prepare for a longish walk. Lots of room to park a car, but in the summer I bet the car park is quite full. We went in October, and there was hardly a soul around. Hiked about 5 KM of trails to the south of Pyramid lake, and it was quiet and beautiful. Even at this time of the year there were flowers, and green plants around. The foliage of the aspen trees was turning golden."
"Pyramid Lake is a popular wedding destination in Jasper, it's just minutes from the town and is just a spectacular sight below Pyramid Mountain. I visited this lake today and it had such perfect, still waters with providing amazing mirrored surfaces. Don't miss it!"
Good if you have a boat but we found other lakes more scenic and appealing.
"Love these two lakes. You can spend a whole day here easily, just hiking around or renting boats at either lake. Take a stroll on the Island at Pyramid lake. Have a picnic lunch if you wish. I have kayaked on both lakes over the years. Well worth it. I had my own kayak though and it is fine to use your own boats on either lake. Been coming here for years and always make it a point to visit the area on any Jasper stay."
"We visited on a Saturday afternoon so we expected a bit of a crowd but this place is so peaceful. The reflections are terrific, the visitors speak in hushed tones to preserve the serenity, even the canoeists seem to paddle in silence. People just sit on the benches and relax- great therapy."
"We bought Pizza and then drove 10 mins to Pyramid Lake. We sat on a floating dock, eating Pizza and watched the sun go down over Pyramid Lake. This part of Jasper has recently been named the largest night preserve in the world. We stayed until dark and then marvelled at the absolute darkness with the best starry night sky we have ever seen. It was simple, cheap and the best thing we did."
You MUST not miss this if you have taken the time to travel to Jasper. Spectacular! Don't forget your camera!!
"A must see. Beautiful lakes that are really close to Jasper. Pyramid Lake has canoeing for $30/hr, much more affordable than Lake Louise and Moraine Lake which amount to $45/hr. Plus the hours are great and it’s not crowded at all! You could canoe during sunset, and it’s absolutely beautiful!"
"We stayed at nearby Patricia Lake, and kayaked on both Patricia and Pyramid lakes. Pyramid Lake is by far the more pretty and inviting in terms of kayaking. We had two children (11 and 9) and felt very safe out on the lake. You get gorgeous views and great photo opportunities.Afterwards we had lunch in the Coast Pyramid Lake restaurant. We loved it there, and went twice! Good food, great service, and lovely views. Pricey, but so is everywhere in Jasper area."
"Stayed here with my family in summer '11 and enjoyed every minute! The cabins were spacious and beds were comfy. However, Shower wasn't great and there was no bathtub. There was good facilities on site, with laundrette, Internet cafe(as well as wifi in the cabins), canoe kayak and bicycle rentals from the front office, hot tub, gas bbqs and the 'firepit' (an outdoor bbqing area where you had to make your own fire to cook!) and of course the lake!! Swimming was fun, but extremely cold! There was a nice relaxed atmosphere around the place, and I would certainly stay here again!Only downside was the shower and the 10 min drive into central jasper from the cabins!"
"This area is definitely underrated and is so close to Jasper town. It is beautiful, peaceful and serene. The area offers good walking trails with something to see as you keep going along. Appears to be quite popular with bike riders and horse back riding but not general foot traffic which is strange. You can also hire canoes and kayaks to paddle around either lake as well which is good for the more active people out there."
This can be a short afternoon trip from Jasper. Just after driving up the hill is Pyramid Lake which is smaller than Patricia Lake. From parking lot there are trails trough forest and picnic tables can be found on the trail. Actually we went one evening there to have a picnic dinner and for sure we enjoyed a lot. Passing Pyramid Lake a short drive also and you reach Patricia Lake where there are some nice bungalows and cottages. There you can rent a kayak or just hike around the lake on trails. In late summer I heard that you can swim in lake in June the water was pretty cold though
"Driving about 4.5km north from Jasper you come across Patricia Lake, followed immediately after by Pyramid Lake. When we were there, there was only one other couple at both lakes, most people seem to completely bypass this area - goodness knows why.There are plenty of beautiful pictures to be taken at both. Pyramid Lake is a bit bigger and you can even rent canoes to take out. At this lake there is also a very small island, which is well worth stopping and taking a short walk around.It's definitely worth a visit."
"We spent quite a bit of time in around these two lakes during our 12 day Canadian Rockies trip. We ended up staying at Patricia Lake Bungalows, so that explains why we swam in Patricia Lake, kayaked on it and spent quite a bit of time just sitting and watching the scenery ...we also hiked a bunch of the loop trails around there. I put up a photo web album of our whole trip, with captions and the pictures that correspond with Patricia Lake are # 115-136. Go to Picasaweb.google.com/mjneenan, if interested and let me know if you have any questions."
"A very, very short drive from Jasper town centre brings you to these two picturesque lakes. For me Patricia Lake was the more interesting as it was the scene of a WWII experiment to create ice aircraft carriers to protect the shipping lanes. Both are ideal for photography."
"Pyramid Lake is a short drive outside of Jasper - we went late after dinner and it was nice and quiet.You can continue past the parking for the lodge and there are a few pull offs closer to the bridge out to the island in the middle of the lake.Stroll over the bridge and onto the island - the views are lovely and there are plenty of benches to sit on and enjoy the sunset. It is a nice quiet stroll. We even spotted a moose on the far shore of the lake.Overall, a nice way to kill an hour and walk off dinner."
"It's great because it's close to Jasper.
Beautiful if you love taking photos. Great for just sitting on one of many benches and relaxing."
