"When we stopped by, while passing through in late October, there were no open facilities. On the way heading north up the Icefield Parkway, the weather was not conducive to going for a walk closer to the glacier; and on the way back south, we just didn't have time. Nonetheless, the view was spectacular. You can see the blue-colored glacial ice (especially in the crevasses). It reminded me of my visit a few years ago to Franz Josef and Fox Glaciers in New Zealand."
"We drove to the ice fields centre then got on the coach to the actual glacier. The driver of the coach was a bit of a comedian and got everyone engaged on the short drive to the transfer point. You have to transfer over to a specialised vehicle for the drive onto the glacier, again the driver was cheerful, knowledgeable and engaging. We were lucky that the weather was sunny but that made it a bit tricky underfoot as the ice was melting and very slippery, you need good shoes or boots. Take a water bottle so you can taste the glacial melt water."
"First one takes a bus from the interesting visitor center to a place to get on the BIG snow mobile that drives you to the glacier and then you walk on the glacier. Guides provide great service & information, especially when on the snow mobile - telling about areas, mountains, history of the area, shrinking of the glacier ( could it be climate change causing that ????????), etc. Then once on the glacier one walks around for 20-30 minutes and checks thing out - be careful you can slip and someone on our tour stepped in a melting glacial hole - up to her thigh and it was -6 degrees F. She was cold - be careful. This tour is something you should (must) do - if physically able - a unique, interesting and probably for most people a once in a lifetime event. It is not strenuous , Very glad we did it, I can tell my grand kids to do it - hopefully the glacier will still be there when the are old enough to visit."
"What an incredible visit! This was definitely the highlite of our trip! Not only is the Glacier beautiful and awesome but we couldn’t have been more safe and felt more comfortable than Brewster. Our driver (I’m sorry I forget his name) was amazing. Our vehicle couldn’t make it up the steepgrade because of the recent snow and ice... he had to slowly, carefully drive backwards back down the hill so we wouldn’t slide. He did it perfectly! I can not recommend this tour more for 1) the experience and 2) the Brewster company! Thank you for a wonderful once in a lifetime experience!"
Really enjoyed this tour. Well set up with good focus on safety. Interesting commentary and fantastic tour guides/drivers. Nick was especially great!
Super Kyle was our informative and entertaining driver in our big snow mobile guarded by his trusty Ram side kick. To be able to actually walk on a glacier and collect some pure water was amazing as this will become something of the past. Thank you Super Kyle for this wonderful experience.
"Athabasca glacier is about 2.5 sq miles in area and located in the Columbia Ice Field in Canadian Rockies. We boarded an Snowcoach to reach Athabasca glacier. We walked around the ice surface with child like spirit. We threw snowballs and took many photographs. The sun was bright and an all-white surrounding strained our eyes. We learned about the bluish ice in glaciers. Blue ice occurs when snow falls on a glacier, is compressed, and becomes part of the glacier. Air bubbles are squeezed out and ice crystals enlarge, making the ice appear blue. We also learned to keep off the crevasses in a glacier. However, we felt bad when we came to know that the Athabasca glacier is  currently receding at a rate of about 5 metres (16 ft) per year. It has receded more than 1.5 km (0.93 mi) and lost over half of its volume in the past 125 years."
On our journey to the Athabaska glacier.Neil Evans our guide and driver was brilliant. The running commentary he gave was impressive. Informing us even when we stopped at the viewing places of their history. Cheers Neil.
What a feeling when you ride to the glacer and walk on the ce with the wind in your face - beautiful. Ok its probably because we dont get snow at home... Concernng is the impact of the pace at which the glacier is receeding with climate change...I could seen the difference in 5years. Shout out to the great guides Sam and Sam who were very informative and friendly - keep up the jokes Sam :)
"We were taken up on a large vehicle to the glacier where we could stand and walk on it. We enjoyed the time, but it is sad that tourism activities , the fires in the area etc, and time itself are causing the glacier to recede. For me personally, being on the glacier was once in a lifetime experience...it will be sad when the glacier is no longer there..."
"I was there on 12 September 2017 as part of Trip-A-Deal and Mike the Kiwi was very knowledgeable, funny and patient with our tour group. The visitor centre was still busy, despite it being the last month of the season, but the Guinness Book of Records 61 or 62 ladies toilets made for a speedy comfort stop. The food was pretty basic, but there were a lot of people to feed. Up on the glacier, the cloud cover was low. The previous day had been magnificent with sunny skies, but Mike said that the high wind made it difficult for walking, so we were happy with our weather. Debra G, Australia"
"My husband booked this trip for us. While I did enjoy it, I was surprised at the lack of concern this company has for the environment. It is clear that this type of tourism negatively affects the life of the glacier. Our guide even told me that was the case! Unfortunately, it seems as though they are just trying to make a buck as opposed to making an attempt to preserve nature. If you are unaware of what actually takes place during the tour, the company loads up a massive van (expelling all kinds of exhaust into the air) and totes around 40-50 people up to the glacier ... and then the tourists GET OUT AND WALK DIRECTLY ON THE GLACIER for 30 minutes. There are countries around the world that are already beginning to ban this - Canada, catch up before it's too late! I understand that the glacier would melt regardless of tourist walking on it, but as the guide told me, it definitely speeds up the process. If I would have known this, I never would have agreed to take this tour. If you are even the least concerned with the environment and it's preservation, please do not take this tour. I promise you can still get beautiful pictures from afar!"
"Get to actually walk on a glacier and be awe inspired by its size and beauty. It has receded a lot since I saw it last time, 33 years ago but still worth a visit."
We booked tickets in advance through our travel agency. The busdriver/tour guide had studied geology and gave a very thorough explanation concerning the Columbia Icefield and the Glaciers we could see and walk on. It is impressive to stand on a layer of ice of more than 250 meter thickness. We were lucky to have very nice weather.
"A combination of warming, polution and wildfire smoke left this a bit underwhelming. Massive yes, but not the prisitine ice you can find in Iceland. So, it's a Canada experienceThe Glacier can be seen along the parkway heading south, and you can get a tour from Columbia Icefields Centre to walk on the glacier tounge to the right."
"The easy hike from the parking area makes it possible to see how far the glacier has receded over the decades. Markers along the trail show where the glacier extended to in the 1890's, the 1920's, and more recent dates in the 1960's and 1980's. A reminder that glaciers may not be with us if it keeps on this way!"
"The drive on approach and the vision of this glacier is magnificent. The Columbia icefield is truly wonderful.
Quite simply a must do!
Words are not enough."
We were with 50 others on a tour of Athabasca Glacier. This is a very good tour snd everyone should see the diminishing glacier which is receding 16 feet a year due to warm temperatures. The artic cats take you to the glacier on slopes up to 33 degrees. It is quite cold on the glacier even when air temperatures are 70+ degrees. The guides are very good and give good descriptions of the glacier and the surrounding area. This is a MUST see while it lasts
"Whilst the glacier is spectacular, there's a lot of waiting around to get those 20 minutes on the ice. The centre is poorly organised - with no clear signage or place to sit while you wait for your trip. The commentary aboard the buses was drivel - people spending just too much time trying to be funny rather than imparting some knowledge about the area. For example - glacial formation, retreat, what's being studied, size relative to others around the world. Just a bit of a missed opportunity."
"The ride on the snow mobile was great fun, driven by Sandra who kept us entertained the whole time. The 10 minute experience was great, a little slippery and you definitely need to wear shoes with a ripple sole and watch where and how you walk. I highly recommend it."
"It was fun to take those huge tired buses to go up the glaciers to take photos and back. Worth doing once, not twice though."
Great place to visit. Must wear warm clothes if you want to spend some time on top of the glacier. Buy the tickets in advance on line.
"My husband and I enjoyed the Glacier Tour very much. It is gorgeous, tucked up in the Canadian Rockies. Yes it is receding ~ all part of the natural life span of a glacier. It can be a bit crowded, but you get to experience walking on a Glacier. Yes up close it is a bit dirty ~ but so is every other glacier. We have been to Alaska hiking on glacier and the appearance was quite similar. they are not going to be spotless and super clean, they pick up rocks, sand and debris as they move. It is quite an amazing place and very beautiful. the visitors center is a bit crowded - really crowded! but we wound our way through the crowds and had no issues. Our Brewster driver Mitch was great. He was very knowledgeable, made our day."
Partway up the side of the glacier in a very dusty area you climb aboard a huge Brewster's vehicle which holds about 40. You then slowly trundle up to the glacier and park alongside a row of these huge vehicles. You climb down and notice that the glacier now looks rather dirty. You are allowed to wonder up to about 10 metre from the vehicle and take your photo's and even encouraged to take a drink from the melting glacier water. You are told how much the glacier has receded and that in a very short time it wont be there any more.
"On the main road from Banff to Jasper and about 130 km South to Jasper you are in this very interesting point. There is a big parking place and a central building. In this building you buy the tickets for several excursions, restaurants, gift shop, rest rooms and resting area. Very conveniant point to stop. In order to reach the Athabaca glacier you must purchase a ticket for this visit since no private access is allowed. The way to the glacier is composed by two stages. First you join the bus just outside the main building taking you to a closer station to the glacier. Then you join a big bus truck with very big wheels taking you to the glacier, leaving you for short walk and taking photos for about 20 minutes and returning you to the bus station in order to take the bus back to the central building. Those who bought a combined ticket for a visit the ""Sky walk"" will stay in the bus and will continue to the ""Sky walk "" location and back. I just passed Northbound near the ""Sky walk"" and found it very small and not worth the dozens of Dollars required for such an attraction. (in Vancouver Capilano suspension bridge you find a similar ""sky walk"" with no additional cost).So visiting the Athabasca glacier, looking the sourounding area including Andromeda glacier close to you as well and walking is very satisfying. But be very careful when walking on the smooth surface of the glacier.In Alaska you can visit glaciers as well but then you need to join a cruise and then finance an expensive helicopter flight to a glacier. Here it is much cheaper and the combination of this glacier visit with the bus truck experience is a must visit in the Canadian Rockies."
This was a well organized tour to drive on and walk on the Glacier and also to learn about how glaciers form and their lifespan. The view is spectacular. We were able to get tickets there with times close to when we arrived. The centre has a restaurant for lunch if you need to wait a bit so time it well. The guides were excellent and the experience fun. It will be very cold so dress appropriately.
Such an amazing experience. Tamara was fantastic. Skip tge bus abd take the 3 hour hike up the glacier.
"We skipped the packed on-ice tours and drove across the street from the Discovery Center to a large parking lot, where we went on a rocky and invigorating hike right up to the glacier's toe. I'd recommend sturdy shoes and possibly even a hiking pole if you have one to use. The path is lined with several informational plaques about the glacier. It's sad to see how quickly it's melting. The parking lot was very busy, but people were pulling out all the time, so we had no problem getting a spot to leave the car."
Walking on a glacier.... how spectacular... a nicely done event... you will ride in a one of 23 all terrain cars in the world designed especially for the glacier. You can just tip toe around or if you are more daring walk well out on to the glacier. Do it so you can say you did it.
"I loved this experience. The guides explained the sustainability credentials of the enterprise and the trucks. The glacier isn't dirty, its appearance is due to natural processes. Glaciers are dangerous, so if you aren't up for proper arctic hiking, this is the closest safe way to access an incredible part of nature.Our guide, Sandra, was incredibly entertaining and informative."
"We just returned from August, 2017 Caravan tour. The Canadian Rockies are the mostbeautiful place we ever went to, but walking on Glacier seemed wrong. Wet, ice anddirty, not beautiful and majestic, like viewing from afar. I would pass on this. UneventfulWe should preserve our glaciers, not abuse them."
"As beautiful as the sight of a glacier is, I truly didn't find it a positive experience to drive a massive truck across a section of it just to let tourists stand on it. I've hiked across a glacier in New Zealand, I've marvelled at a glacier in Alaska, but seeing these trucks in action really upset me. The tour guide was lovely, and gave some very interesting facts about the area, but he didn't explain how allowing this tourism would save the area. It would be far more beneficial, even though expensive, to have helicopter flights over the area, and have an educational display and conservation talks at the centre. Personal choice, as are all tourist activities - it just didn't ""float my boat""."
"Our guide Eve....was amazing! She was informative, confident and very engaging. She has the perfect sense of humor while making you feel comfortable. She is indeed a good employee!"
This review is mixed in with the Brewster IceCrawler Tour from the Icefield Visitor Center.YOU CAN WALK TO THE TOE OF THE GLACIER and not be on the Ice Crawler tour which takes you out on the glacier.From the IceFields visitor center you can see the road across the highway that will let your drive down to the Toe of the Glacier Parking Lot. You can also see the people walking to the Toe of the Athabasca Glacier from the visitor center outdoor platform.You will need to walk up an incline to reach the Toe or front of the glacier ... it is somewhat steep ... you cannot actually walk up to the toe but can view it from a distance.Many people miss this opportunity not knowing it is possible ... see photos below
"Our guide was Super Kyle and he was excellent. Humorous, informative and knowledgable. His personal stories added to the overall experience. It is amazing when you stop and think that you are actually walking on a glacier; not sure that there are very many places in the world where this is possible. The glacier has receded so much since 1843; hopefully people will be more conscientious about global warming and take some positive action. I recommend this adventure for all ages!"
Done the walk to the toe of the glacier and then the walk on the glacier. Surreal experience to walk on a glacier. Very pretty. Filled a water bottle of glacier water. Nicest water I've ever tasted.
"It's a very special experience to stand on top of 800 ft of ice hundreds of years old, created by compressing thousands of feet of snow. This glacier is moving at a speed of 1-2 centimeters a day and you do not notice this. We were very lucky with the weather and really did not need any cold weather clothes. Sun was shining and there was no wind. Saw the ice melting and forming small creeks. Fascinating! Total time spent on the glacier was about 20 minutes."
"Did this tour 3rd August as part of the drive from Jasper to Banff.Sam, our driver, was knowledgeable and entertaining. Our son has the same name and the driver let our little boy beep the horn and retract the steps, which delighted him.Time at the glacier was short, but you don't have really spectacular views as you're below the icefield, so I'm not really sure you would accomplish much if given extra time there. We took some water in a bottle and had some pictures and a walk around and then it was time to go. It felt a little short, but not so short I'd complain.Skywalk was ok and having done the Grand Canyon Skywalk later on our trip, more effort has been put in to this one, with information about the building of the Skywalk, wildlife etc along the walk, a larger Skywalk and more time allowed there.All in all, an enjoyable experience."
"The glacier itself is a beautiful natural wonder set amongst snow-covered mountains.Being one of the more accessible glaciers, visits are a business that are efficiently orchestrated. We were bussed in groups from the Visitors Centre to a staging post where we boarded large vehicles called Ice Explorers which took us onto the glacier where we were allowed to stay for about 20 minutes.A commentary by the driver of our Ice Explorer identified various glacial features, the different types of moraine and the extent to which the glacier had retreated in the past 50 years. This was interesting and informative.There were a couple of hundred or more tourists there at the same time, all jostling for a good photo, selfie sticks in hand. The ice was wet, slippery and dangerous. An area was cordoned off, beyond which we were not allowed to venture.It is good that access to the glacier is controlled but nevertheless the number of vehicles and people that daily go onto the ice makes the experience very touristy. It is nothing like the advertisements you see of a pristine white glacier against which stands a single red Ice Explorer.Expect to see several Ice Explorers and hundreds of tourists being hustled on and off for their 20 minutes on the glacier.My reaction was: ""Poor glacier""."
We visited the glacier while on a TAUCK Canadian Rocky tour. Sam was the driver of our ice truck.....took us up to the glacier. He has a personality as large as that glacier itself. Very entertaining. Very knowledgeable about the area. All of the personnel were well versed. This made for a great experience even though I withstood only about 6 minutes of glacier weather. Tell Sam hello.
"Great bus, easy to climb on to and off. Drivers are knowledgeable and informative. Good insight into how Glaciers are formed. Insight into climate change and the shrinking glaciers throughout the Canadian Rockies."
"It pains me to write this, but I feel it's important to express our disappointment with our glacier adventure. At 12:30 on August 16,2017 - 20 members of my family embarked on, what we consider to be, a once in a lifetime experience. While your staff were top notch, and Sandra was a wonderful guide, we are truly disappointed with the amount of time we spent on the glacier. Our adventure, and tour, consisted of another large group. It was made up of mostly seniors. At about 13:03, Sandra made an announcement, while pulling up to the landing spot on the glacier, that we had to until 13:18, to explore. She then proceeded to tell us, we had to be back, sitting down and ready-to-roll in the ice-crawler at 13:20. Sandra parked at approximately 13:05, and she began helping people onto the glacier. The group of seniors was sitting in the front rows, and by the time they exited the ice-crawler - it was after 13:10. We finally were able to put our feet on the glacier at around 13:11. That left us about seven minutes to explore. As we were walking onto the ice, a few members of our family asked Sandra, if we could get a few extra minutes. She said, since she was already running late - and given the traffic on the glacier earlier this afternoon, she couldn't extend our timeframe. Honestly, we were barely able to fill up a water bottle and take a couple photos at the outer edge of the roped area - before we were being hauled back to the ice-crawler. We looked on Trip Advisor, and when we spoke to a booking agent over the phone, we were told, and we expected, about 15-20 minutes to wander around the glacier. While we can appreciate there were some mobility issues with some of the other guests... as Sandra mentioned, there also seemed to be some logistical issues that delayed our arrival and shortened our window.We had four generations of our family on the ice today. We were so rushed, we didn't get a chance to take a group/family photo. The glacier was supposed to be the highlight of our Rocky Mountain trip - and instead we feel incredibly disappointed and feel it wasn't worth the money... and more importantly - our time.Again, I want to stress the staff were fantastic and knowledgeable. In no way are we suggesting they're to blame. It seemed they were trying to follow a very tight schedule, that sadly, left us in the lurch. What's worse - the company did not even have the decency to email us back after expressing our concerns."
"This is a must experience! One tip, book online and book your time. Arrive early and wait for your time to be called. That way you don't need to wait in a long line buying tickets and waiting for your time of departure. Depending how busy they are your wait can be over 2 hours after you buy your tickets. Now for the glacier, I think it is beautiful! Once in a lifetime experience!"
We took the glacier bus and sky walk tour. The bus up to the glacier was good with the drivers doing their best to be entertaining. The ice can be very slippy when you get there and it was on this day so the elderly and infirm should probably enquiry as to conditions before buying a ticket. From here we took the bus to the skywalk. There are no facilities at all here which is very poor indeed. Having been stuck in a long queue to board the first bus then transferred to the ice bus then standing on a cold glacier then the nerves of walking on a glass bridge.... facilities are very necessarily here is all I am saying. There is nothing until you have caught the bus and gone back to the visitor centre. Likewise if you are in an rv there are no facilities for dumping on their campsite. Being as how both jasper and banff are a long drive away this lack of provision is very poor indeed. The visitor centre is busy and tickets are not easy to get... not aided by the fact that some employees give false information about the availability and release time of tickets. Had we listened to the advice we were given we would have missed out on tickets.
"Connected to the Columbia Icefields, Highly recommend. Get there early as parking could be a problem. Favorite of bus tours. Worth the price. Several tours available"
"We had booked the tour prior to coming which was helpful. The tour was not only educational, but an amazing experience and our ice explorer driver/tour guide Dakota was quite funny as well. Unfortunately you only have 15-20mins on the glacier itself which goes very quickly when it's busy and slippery to walk, but was definitely worth it! The visitor centre is quite large, you have the option to eat, there are plenty of washrooms and I was told they play a movie downstairs relating to the glacier. Would definitely recommend!"
"The visitor centre was very busy, and it was lucky that we had booked a slot.The staff on the tour were informative, but nowhere near as funny as they think they are!You are taken to a very small roped off area, that is full of people, for 30 minutes. Few people stayed outside for the full 30 minutes due to the temperature.It was an ideal place for a break from the car on our trip from Lake Louise to Jasper."
"We visited the beautiful Athabasca glacier whilst we road tripped through the rockies! The information centre is well put together with great views of the surrounding mountains and glacier. The food was tasty and well priced. Our coach driver, Lauren was informative and funny, giving a fab talk to say it was her first ever tour on her first day at the centre! We also had Patrick as our snow coach driver who was really quite funny, especially as we descended down one particularly steep drop on the way to the glacier. Me and the rest of the girls definitely think they should name the glacier ""Patrick Glacier"" too ha!"
"Exquisite sight, crystal clear weather, quite organized, a bit costly for the amount of time you are actually standing on a glacier but so worth it because these magnificent icefields are shrinking."
"We took the ice explorer evening tour that included canapés on the ice and dinner at the restaurant Peter, the driver and guide, was excellent and very knowledgableTaking this tour meant that we were the last group on the ice and we had the whole viewing area to ourselvesThe canapés and drinks on the ice were nice and we spent about forty minutes exploring, enjoying the view and taking photosThe buffet at the restaurant was excellent and we had a great view of the glacier from the windowsIt is essential to take warm clothing on this trip as the temperature at the visitors centre was in the high twenties (Celsius) and very cold on the glacierWe wore long trousers and took down jackets which were perfect - some others had only shorts and singlets and got pretty cold very quickly and had to cut short their time on the iceThe sunset drive back along the ice field parkway was spectacular tooNext time we would stay at the accommodation at the tour site to have more time next to all the glaciers adjacent to the Athabasca glacier"
"We went on a day tour to here, walking on the glacier and the journey getting there and back are such an experience! This was definitely a highlight of our month long trip from Australia. I would love to go again."
"Do the morning walk/aftermoon walk with a trained professional, SO WORTH IT! We woke up bright and early morning at 5.15 AM packed jackets, gloves, wool scarves and set off on our 3-hour drive towards Columbia Ice-fields. Our 3-hour expedition on Athabasca glacier was to start at 9.45 AM. The drive on icefields parkway is spectacular. We stopped to take pictures of black bears that we spotted by the deciduous trees close to the highway. Endless vistas of the Rockies with sheets of ice, bright blue, green glacial lakes dotting the landscape made for spectacular eye-candy. As we passed Lake Helen, Lake Hector, Bow Lake, Peyto Lake we promised ourselves we'll spend an entire day exploring and doing it justice. Parks Canada has taken care to fence off large areas to prevent the wildlife from becoming roadkill, At periodic interval there is a rock hewn overpass which I suppose allows animals to cross from one side to the next. There was a distinct nip in the air!We did not want to miss our date with Athabasca glacier, so we just drove past the lakes, that day. Had booked the hike online with a company called Icewalk.We managed to get there at 8.45 AM and went to the Columbia Icefields visitors centre.At about 9.20 AM we drove to the meeting place opposite the Icefields visitors centre to the foot of mountain. Guided walk on the glacier cost about $105 pp - worth it! We could see the toe of the glacier glistening in the sun with tantalizing glimpses of the glacial tongue in the distance. We met with Corin our guide for the day. He walked us thru the safety procedures. They provided us with special shoes, extra rain jackets, hats and gloves if you wanted as well. Most importantly they gave us snow-chain spikes to wear on our boots once we got to the toe. I must tell you, this makes ALL the difference. One could confidently look a crevasse in the mouth, teetering on the edge with ZERO fear, with these babies on your shoe clawing into the ice!! Do not attempt to do any of this on your own because it is dangerous and an experienced guide could be the difference between life and death."
"incredible experience on the glacier. Make sure you wear warm clothes as the wind coming down the glacier is very cool and the ice itself is cold. Also its rough and jagged wear good shoes no flip flops, sandals slip ons etc"
"We visited the Glacier Skywalk (reviewed elsewhere), and on the way back spotted cars parking up at the base of the Athabasca Glacier, on the opposite side of the road to the Icefields Parkway Centre. You can park here for free and it's about a 20 minute hike up (fair - moderate, not wheelchair accessible) to the base, where you can hike around to take in the views. They are incredible and I highly recommend this short hike if you're on the Icefields Parkway and passing through, or don't have the cash to splurge on one of the tours offered at the centre."
Worth a visit. Take care of the warning signs and take advantage of a safe guided tour if you want to be up close.
"Despite us inadvertently visiting on a public holiday weekend , the organizers and staff were all over it like a fat kid on a cupcake. The drivers were all friendly and knowledgeable . Cazza was our specialist glacier bus driver - she was great - funny friendly and knowledgeable.The glacier is set up with boundaries for a reason - this area is checked outside this it can be dangerous with massive crevices and holes -follow what the drivers say . Another word of advice - don't be late for the return bus . With 50 other people on time and meeting their own individual schedules - they won't wait if you decide to not look at your watch ! The ride in is in specially built 6 wheel drive vehicles which is part of the fun . The glacier visit is interesting and with the knowledge of the guides it is worth doing for sure. We then did the sky walk which was also very much worth doing ."
"Athabascar a Glacier us one of the six ''Toes' in the Colombian Icefield.it us a receding Glacier and we were told that in about 70 years it would no longer be there. We were taken up to the Glacier on a special snow mobile.(The tires in us fist $5,000 each!) We then alighted and walked around the Glacier. You have to stay within the flagged area or safety as there are crevices which are dangerous and easy to fall into!The experience was was surreal as it was so breathtaking! We drank water from the Glacier which was old and pure. On the way back we saw mountain sheep grazing by the roadside! For a really different experience I would highly recommend it!"
"We took the ice explorer up for a better look. It is pretty amazing to think of how big is used to be. Unfortunate, but still amazing. The view from the Icefields Center was wonderful the day we were there. Clear blue skies. You can't drive by and not stop to have a good look."
"Well sorry to go against the flow but this place is overrated. It is a money-making exercise for Brewster and they have a well organised system for getting as many folk as possible onto the icy slope for 15 minutes. Yes, 15 minutes. And the Skywalk...well stand anywhere else in Jasper or Banff National Parks and get better views for free. It's a tourist trap. I am a tourist, I was trapped. Our best experiences in the region have been when we have wandered (only slightly) off the beaten track. The Athabasca Glacier is THE beaten track. Beaten by 200 of the mechanical money-making monsters every day."
"Really interesting ride up to glacier. Get Paige was our guide and she was very good and knew her stuff. Is a geology student or a geologist, did not get that. But it was informative and she answered every question and was knowledgeable in her answers. But she explained most things on the ride up to glacier. Worth the time and expense."
You can see five different glaciers from the welcome center for Athabasca Glacier. The whole area is beautiful.
"We got to see a glacier up close and personal, led by a great guide who knew facts and stories and shared them in interesting ways. We appreciated his reverence for this place and how he took time to help us learn the history."
Its a good place to visit but only lasted for 20 mins. We took the combo skywalk/glacier tour. We book in for 3:15 Pm and started queuing around 3 pm but only managed to arrived in athabasca around 4pm. The waiting in line and dispatching of buses from the ticketing area that will takes us to the depot area of the Brewster were so disorganized. I give 5 star for the skywalk/glacier. Its a must to see but I gave 1 star for the tour operator in their management of tourist.
"Firstly you get on a bus at the visitors centre which takes you to the change over halfway up where you then board the large tractor type vehicle which takes you onto the glacier. The drivers of all of the vehicles come from around the world & you will be told some 'tall stories' by them. They are real characters & they make the trip more memorable & something different, Aussies drivers tell jokes about the Brits etc, prepare to 'bite' back, they love it.In July due to the forest fires the ice seemed very dirty, it's surprising what's in the air but look closer at the ice & it's a lovely shade of blue underneath. In mid July & it was cold & slippery up on the glacier, coats are definitely required."
Athabasca Glacier off of Icefields Parkway is part of the Columbia Icefields. You can park down near the glacier and take a short walk up a steep gravel hill to see the glacier. This glacier has receded significantly in the last 10 years.
"I've walked on glaciers before, but none as large and interesting at Athabasca. You get to the glacier by riding on an Ice Explorer (which is an adventure in itself). We were on the glacier when and ice storm hit, and it was like being in another world. It was a wonderful experience. Too bad it is receding so rapidly."
"If there is one spot you need to visit to understand the effects of global warming, it's here. Wow! There are markers to show where the glacier was and it is scary how far back it has gone. We stopped here on the way to Banff from Jasper. We didn't do the glacier walk which looked very interesting and will be back for that. We just walked to the new edge of the glacier from the car park which is just over a mile. Took us 30 mins. Some uphill and downhill walking as this is where the glacier was. Only negative is that there is only one bathroom so the line was long!"
"We did the glacier and skywalk experience on a beautifully sunny day in June and I would highly recommend it. Yes you have to deal with throngs of people, yes you are herded like cattle (sort of) and yes the catering is terrible.......but what else would you expect from a major tourist attraction? Don't let that stop you from experiencing something special. Be prepared......book in advance to avoid having to queue for tickets, pack your own lunch and dress warmly and you'll have a great day out!"
We arrived at midday but had to wait until 3.15pm for our ride on to the glacier and this was not during the peak period. So while we waited we did the skywalk which was disappointing and crowded. We finally reached the glacier at 4.05pm and spent 15 minutes enjoying the experience. It is best to book a time in advance so as to avoid the long wait. 45 minutes spent on the attractions excluding travel time during our five and a half hour visit means a lot of time waiting around.
Travelers that have never walked on a glacier should consider this opportunity before it's gone. The Columbia Icefields are spectactular and easy to get to right on the highway. Although the ice is receding it is still magnificant. The vehicles that take you out on the ice are fun and the drivers informative. The glacier water is an amazing color and it was a fun experience. You can see it without purchasing tickets at the visitors center but if you want the experience of actually being on it - go for it! I'm glad I did it. It was my husband's 60th birthday and we will never forget it. It was chilly but sunny so light jackets were enough
"We stopped at the Glaciers visitor centre which had sweeping views of the valley and of the glacier some distance away. Here they have a gift shop, a cafeteria where you can get a hot or cold meal or snack and where you catch the bus that takes you to the terminal of the all terrain ice explorers. You spend a lot of time waiting and spend a lot of money for the opportunity to walk on the glacier for about 15 minutes only. Our bus tour driver was a delight, the drive in the explorer short, and although you get to walk on the glacier I've been on glaciers you don't have pay to walk on. After all, this attraction is mother natures miracle not man's......You can park at the base of the glacier, quite a long way from it and walk a loop, but you are no where near the ice of the glacier since it's receded so far back into the mountains."
"It was a unique experience from the time we were riding the Glacier bus, which according to our driver/tour guide who was very informative and funny,there are only 23 of it in the world and 22 are in Athabasca. The glacier experience was indescribable from the time we were getting on the ice, walking around and drinking water from melted ice, so refreshing! It's a once in a lifetime experience that you shouldn't miss.Unfortunately, the glacier has been receding every year."
"We drove the Icefields Parkway from Canmore and Google Maps had it pegged at 2:45 hours (with minimal-to-no stops). Upon arrival, park on the left hand side of the road (if driving north) to access the Glacier itself. The hike from the parking lot is pretty short at approximately 15 minutes and has a few steep uphill portions. Upon arrival to the Glacier, you feel how awesome of a natural wonder it is. You will not be able to walk on it nor touch it since you cannot actually get within 200 meters from the edge. But still, it is worth experiencing. We visited on July 1 and the temperature was around 68 degrees. It is a bit windy and cooler once you get near the Glacier, so plan accordingly."
Stepped on the glacier and spend 30 mins there. Loved the experience. Lovely views of the Colombia Icefields. A must visit. No second thoughts necessary.
We last visited this 17 years ago & are recollection is that it was bigger then. The glacier is receding at about 5 meter per year so no wonder it seemed smaller. Worth visiting.
"The road journey from Lake Louise to Jasper is beautiful and along the way the road passes the phenomenon of Athabasca Glacier. We viewed the glacier only from the road and the adjacent service station. But the sight of this natural beauty has inspired to read more about these incredible features, how important they are to our existence, and why we must do whatever we can to preserve them. Wonderful stuff"
Travelling on the custom built glacier vehicles was a unique fun experience. Like a super sized quad bike on steroids ! And very cool to stand on a glacier. We were lucky with the weather too. Only sad thing is to see where the glacier used to end ..... and far back it has receded. Visit soon before it's too late. And a big shout out to our vehicle driver ... go Eve !!!!
"Pictures do not come close to the experience of seeing the glacier in person. The image is something that will never be forgotten. The drive up Icefields Parkway is filled with amazing views, and the glacier is the pinnacle. Well worth the drive from Banff!"
We booked our attraction ticket online for the Athabasca glacier. You have to be mindful of your trip schedule that is your designated time so if you missed it you have to wait til they can accommodate you. Remember there is also a limited time in the glacier - 20 minutes max your bus will leave on its designated time and you will have to go down on your own. Its really worth the trip though short - you have to understand that the glacier is fragile and will soon be gone in 50 years.
"This is a beautiful venue and quite famous. It is a must see.
There is lots of parking. Lots of visitor support facilities and lots of reasonably priced tours. However, know you can see the glacier up close without paying for a tour."
"A big 50+ seater coach takes you less than a km down to the edge of the glacier, where you transfer to a large specialist vehicle that takes you out onto the ice. Our coach driver was enthusiastic, especially when it came to telling us how great our guide was and that if we enjoyed the trip we could tip him at the end!!!Sure enough our guide was enthusiastic. His act seemed well-rehearsed, and there was even some interesting info about the glacier. When we arrived on the glacier there were four other vehicles there and about 120 people all wandering around taking photos. The trip back consisted of the same comedy routine from our driver and a bit more info. We then took the coach a few kms down the road to the Skywalk. This time our new driver was calm and informative and did not talk to us as if we were 12 year olds!I feel bad about being so negative, but the whole experience was a giant paradox. We were invited to wonder at the beauty of the glacier and surrounding views. Eight diesel coaches pumping out fumes. Specialist vehicles to tackle the ice. The whole structure of the Skywalk. It was all in stark contrast to the respect that is shown for the environment in other areas of Canada. The trip is expensive, over-hyped and morally dubious. It is all just a scar on an otherwise beautiful landscape."
The huge glacier can be seen right from the highway itself. We got over the glacier with the heavy duty special vehicles called Ice Explorer. Do not miss this activity and wear sufficient warm clothing! We did this activity on our day long tour with Brewster.
An absolute MUST DO at the Columbia Icefields. We went on the glacier and it was a lot of fun. So beautiful. Highly recommend
"From the Information center it is only about a 4 minute ride on the enormous buses whose tires are about 5 feet tall. You go over a cliff - 32* slope - it's like a slo mo roller coaster ride. Once of the Glacier, it's amazing that your standing on ice that is ancient and about 800 feet thick, but it feels like nothing special. What an incredible experience."
This was a fantastic tour and really well run. All of our drivers were fantastic. Our ice explorer driver was Daniel and he was very entertaining. It was very chilly on the day we went. Thick coats and gloves are recommended.
"We did the Athabasca Glacier 'walk' and the views were spectacular. I would Not recommend the glacier walk though. It's expensive and for 100CAD you only get 15min on the glacier, barely allowing time to get a photo off! Instead, drive to the centre and do the walks there for free and get the same photos whilst protecting your hip pocket! There's a great little museum, giftshop and toilets there too."
"Observed the ice-fields from the comfort of the Centre using our binoculars. We had not dressed warm enough for the walk. Enjoyed the ""free"" video and had lunch in the restaurant before venturing back. Food average. Rather pricey for the bus trip to the fields. Thoroughly enjoyed the trip back and stopped 2-3 times for pictures."
If you haven't been on a glacier worth doing but compared to Franz Joseph in NZ where you walk in and around the glacier it falls a bit flat when you walk around a flat circle and don't intereract with the glacier that much. But the ride there is fun.
"Words cannot fully express the feelings we had when we were walking on the top of the Athabasca Glacier and braving the cold chilly winds......An awesome experience.The scenic view from the top seemed timeless.The ride on the snocoach from the base of the glacier to the top was fascinating and an ""eye opener"".The snocoach driver cum guide was informative as well as entertaining.Although we were given 15 minutes to walk around the glacier,most of us were back in the coach in less than 10 minutes because of the freezing temperatures and chilly winds.This is a must visit place when you are around Lake Louise."
Amazing place to stop just to admire the views. A good place to stop is at the Columbia icefield discovery centre. There is a nice balcony on the second floor which offers great views.
"You sometimes come across situations that show you how small we are, Athabasca is one of these. The drive up to it in your car gives you some idea of the scale, then from the immaculate visitor centre you get on the big bus, to go over to the transfer parking lot...you then see the immense crawler buses man has built to move people en mass around the environment, you park real close to one to make the transfer, as the cold wind from the glacier is now racing down at you, teasing you on what to expect.The crawl up and on is very exciting, the colours are beautiful so keep looking alongside the track for the blue holes and the crevasses. Dont be put off by the dark area on top, its just the glacier doing some housekeeping, moving stuff from Top to Bottom, if you do see some oakley half jackets then please grab them, i lost them last year but thet should reappear in about 2080 so please mail me them back.i wont spoil the spectacle for you...pun....but its a beautiful place, but wear a warm jacket, gloves and sun glasses as well as insulated footwear or at least 2 paurs of socks so you stay comfortable."
"We had a snow coach ride to the glacier. The guide was highly knowledgeable. We walked on the surface of the glacier which was a little bit challenging. We filled our water bottle with the fresh glacier water. Due to the acrophobia, I did not get to the Skywalk. My wife did. All the views were just marvellous. What a once-in-a-lifetime experience."
"Walking on the glacier was cool! We took a unique vehicle of which there are only like 24 in the world up the steep mountain slopes to the glacier. We got out and walked around on the glacier for about 30 minutes and took pictures. We got back on the vehicle and went down the mountain. I filled my canteen up with glacial water that was cold and refreshing. The view was good very pretty.Dress warm and know it'll be windy. Bring an empty canteen to get glacial water and the camera for photos on the glacier and in front of the huge vehicles.All of this said it was very crowded and took too much time for a sight that was a little underwhelming. After about 10 minutes you just realize you're only walking on ice. Its not that big of a deal. If it was a lot cheaper I think it would be worth it. It's neat, but not essential. Your money could go a lot farther elsewhere."
"A massive glacier, fed by the Columbia Icefield just above. Compare the glacier with its 1919 photo mounted on site. It has retreated about a mile in 100 years. This is fast, as glaciers go. (Adjective: glacial.) There is more summer melt than winter snow on the Columbia Icefield.You can go up on the glacier in an all-terrain Ice Explorer. (See separate reviews for Columbia Icefield Glacier Adventure.) Buy tickets at the Columbia Icefield Glacier Discovery Center, the building across the road (also separate reviews). Or in advance online from Brewster Tours."
"The ride to the glacier in the bus is slow, but worth it. Not much I can say except it is a very peaceful place to visit and it is beautiful."
"Stopped off at the Athabasca Glacier on route to Jasper. Had booked a 3 hour glacier walk with one of the local companies as this seemed better than the bus trip. Sat in the visitors centre across the road and watched the buses and people on the glacier with a sense of trepidation. In reality, it was nothing to worry about. We were with in a small group (around 10 people) with a very experienced guide from New Zealand. The hardest bit of the trip was the walk up to the bottom of the glacier. The whole experience was a highlight of a month long trip around Canada and would definitely recommend it. All kit was provided and the photo opportunities are second to none.Visited August 2015"
"The Athabasca Glacier was a must see visit on our road trip to the Canadian Rockies. It was worth seeing! It was a cold and stormy day so unfortunately, the snow coaches were not going on the Glacier. But we walked to it as far as we were allowed. It is a slightly strenuous hike, but worth it. We did however, get to go on the sky bridge not too far from the glacier. That was an incredible experience. You have to purchase tickets for that and they take you by bus. But we loved every minute of all of it. Including the incredible scenery in the park. The views are like no where else."
"One of a kind experience, if you have never been onto a glacier. Took the bus ride (July visit), walked in the cordoned area. It was very slippery, people went swoosh on their back often. They give 10 minutes to board the bus back again, but it took us nearly 15 minutes to get to the chairs with our two yr old and the same time to walk back. Lots of tourists in July, but they do a nice job of restricting the visit area and the damage. For those who want to spend more time, better to take the hike. It was a long wait at the visitor center (2 hr) to board the bus, those we know said summer is very busy. See if you can call in and book to avoid the wait. The walk on the glass way one or two miles from the visitor center is way over rated for adults, especially in summer. Only our kid loved it, as he had room to walk and run around."
Another 'Must See' thing to do whilst in the area....the weather of course helps and this is truly a magnificent sight - Glad we did it.
"The glacier was beautiful. I arrived on a day tour with brewster and changed to one of their special glacier busses. What an amazing experience! Would recommend to anyone with a day to spare. Trip from Banff city was relatively easy with the tour company, and having a driver made is easy to sit back and watch the scenery pas by."
"We went to Athabasca glacier on Nov 11. They closed down the summer parking lot that is the closest to the glacier. So the hike to the glacier from the winter parking lot is not easy and on uneven ground. There are lots of rocks and ups and downs. Felt like the tundra!When we hiked to the glacier we didnt see any signs so we continued hiking to the glacier and hiked on it. It was pretty cool but then when we hiked back and towards the ""white pylons"" and the summer parking lot, we saw that there was a point where they had signs you shouldn't cross...the glacier is huge. Very windy! Be very careful!We went looking for the ""ice cave"". We found it. Its to the right of the summer parking lot (when facing the glacier). You see a blue ice wall, that's the entrance. It was pretty cool to go into but dangerous!"
"We stopped first at the Icefield Center; it was very crowded. We did not spend any time there because of the crowds, so we drove across the road to the parking lot and walked to the ""toe of the glacier"". It was very cold and windy. You can only walk so far down and then it is fenced off. You can take an Ice explorer onto the glacier and go on a group hike, but we did not do that."
"Hike to the glacier is a little more strenuous than written! I am not sure if it was the altitude, gravel trail or the fact you climb straight up, but the reward was worth it!"
"There's a lot of people here during the day which is what you'd expect - the chance to walk in safety on the Glacier is one of those once in a lifetime things. Tour was good and well worth the money, guide was absolutely right it is slippery!! For the best viewing stay overnight and you get the place much more to yourselves"
"We went on the Athabasca Glacier in an Ice Explorer vehicle and then got out & walked on the glacier, but you can go on organised hiking tours on the glacier. You're cautioned about how slippery the ice is to walk on & there are parts that are roped off as they're a bit dangerous to walk on. The glacier is very old and really beautiful. When we were there the ice looked dirty due to a fine layer of ash from recent bush fires in Alberta. Make sure you dress appropriately, hat & scarves can be helpful even in the Summer months."
"The glacier adventure offered at the center was suspended due to weather. (we were there the day before the tours closed for the season) We parked and took the hike through some very windy and snowy conditions but was a walk back in time. The recession of the glacier is marked with years and my 12 year-old learned a great deal about glaciers, geology, and how beautiful mother earth really is."
"This is one of the few glaciers that's easy to get to. You can park your car nearby and only have a short walk to the tip of the glacier. The glacier was much, much bigger once upon a time. When we were there, it was very cold and windy, which enhanced the glacier experience. It's also nice that you can see the scratched surface of the granite rocks that are now exposed, but were once covered with ice."
"We were very dissapointed about our visit. It is too busy, too crowdy and too much commercialised. Also about the sights we were very dissapointed. We earlier saw glaciers in Iceland and Greenland. Verry sorry but we have to say that this Athabasca glacier can not even match those others. For us, never again"
"Revisited after 40 years - it is still as spectacular as ever. Main differences were that it has receded somewhat since I was last there. Secondly, there are some wicked vehicles that now take you on to the glacier."
"It truly is beautiful and a wonderful experience to view in person. Even though it was crowded while walking on the glacier (with tourists who also came on the Explorer), there is a calming peace and tranquility there. We were allowed 15 minutes to walk and explore in the cordoned off area.We were there in October and it was not that cold but if you are not use to cold, dress in layers. Wear shoes with good grips - it's slippery. Bring your camera, sunglasses (if it's sunny), binoculars, and an empty water bottle (in case there is glacier melt run off)."
"If you've never seen a glacier before, you might really enjoy this. If you have seen other glaciers up close, this one will not be particularly striking. Walking to the toe of the glacier gets very cold and windy so make sure you dress appropriately."
"Lots of Glaciers and Icefields around, but not every one of them is like the Athabasca which you can easily reach and walk on. My husband and I have been there a few times. In August we went there with our granddaughter, we bought the combo tickets to explore the natural beauty and enjoyed the first hand experience to walk on the glacier, tried a little bit of the icy water and had a fun bumpy ride on the ice explorer. Every time when we were there in the last 20 years, the glacier has receded more and more. According to the Ice Explorer tour guide he said, “if it continues receding at this pace, may be 10 to 15 years it wouldn’t be safe to walk on the glacier anymore.” I’m glad we had the chance to visit this mother nature's wonder.Happy travelling!"
Just a short walk over this Glacier is a challenge both because of the slippery conditions and the extreme cold. But the experience is unforgetable.
"After seeing glaciers from the bus windows for a few days, it was nice to actually get on to one and see what it was like. The ride on the Ice Explorer felt like what I imagine it would be like on a Monster truck. Driver was very engaging and comical. The glacier was immense and the colours beautiful. It was a bit slippery, but as long as you were careful, it wasn't too difficult to walk on. Worth the trip."
"We stopped to take the Ice Explorer during our drive on the Icefields Parkway. You start at the chalet and get on a Brewster bus for the short trip across the highway to the Ice Explorer. After transferring to the Ice Explorer, our driver introduced himself as ""Super"" Kyle and Kyle's informative and humorous banter during the drive made the trip memorable. You drive down a 32% grade as you get to the glacier. When you get to the parking lot at the end of the trip you can get out and walk on the glacier. On our day there it was warm (46 degrees on the glacier) with high winds and sunny conditions. Kyle made the return trip fun as well. Where can you easily walk on a glacier? What a great experience! Thank you ""Super"" Kyle."
We are on a Tauck Tour and stopped here to walk the glacier. Brewster Tours does a nice job. Our driver was Zach. Very funny and informative. Worth seeing.
We arrived on a Brewster bus tour and our driver Andy who was brill and should have career in show business drove us straight up to our glacier bus. We then got introduced to tall Mike who gave us a high speed ride up to the glacier that's about 2mph did I say this was amazing well done Mike your a star.the glacier itself was lovely and well worth the visit just do it
"We stopped here on our drive from Lake Louise to Jasper to do a walk on the glacier. Access it strictly limited as there are clearly dangers walking unaccompanied on a glacier where there are crevasses but our guide led us carefully up the glacier pointing out various features of it and how it has changed over the years. At the time of our visit it had lost about 3 metres in depth in just 3 months and whilst winter snowfall will replenish it to some extent, it has receded significantly over the last 100 years. An option to doing a 3 hour walk is to take a bus onto the glacier and walk around near to it. For the more energetic, there is a full day hike which gets much closer to the ice field above the glacier.Overall, a fascinating place to visit where we experienced all 4 seasons during our trip as it has its own micro climate."
"A definite ""must see"", but a long way from our base in Radium. However we decided to go for it, and had an amazing day driving up the Icefields Parkway to the Athabasca Glacier. It's a short(5 minute) walk from the car park (this is apparently one of the most ""accessible"" glaciers in the world), with signs showing where the glacier's snout was at points in the past, and giving a very real sense of how it has receded. The landscape around here is very desolate. I think there are trees, but I don't really recall them - the general feel is of rock and ice and the elements. Very lunar. And despite having seen many photos of the glacier, it is really stunning up close. I say ""close"", but the glacier itself is roped off due to the danger of crevasses, and there are many signs pointing out the dangers (very poignantly) of ignoring the warnings. Still, people were walking on it without guides - you take your chances I suppose. You are still within a few hundred feet of the snout, and the roaring sounds of the meltwater and the wind is quite awesome!To walk on the glacier, there are snow bus tours or you can go with a guided walk, but we did neither, and just enjoyed taking it all in. There is a shop (disappointingly just the same tourist stuff, not much related to the glacier itself), and nice, warm loos. The shop is built on the glacial terminal moraine, and it was interesting to see the beautifully rounded stones all around - they almost looked handcarved!"
This has to be a highlight of any trip to the Canadian Rockies. We were there in a snowstorm to add to our pleasure.
"Having discovered that only authorised coaches are allowed to get anywhere near to the upper parts of the glacier ( a barrier across the road prevents ordinary traffic) we settled for parking close to the bottom of the glacier and clambering up a rough track until we reached the toe of the glacier. The views from here were unbelievable and we had difficulty in dragging ourselves away from this fantastic spot. We then found ourselves, unexpectedly, driving past the Skywalk which is immediately adjacent to the main road. Once again we found our way barred because only authorised coaches are allowed to park. Give this a miss and visit the toe of the glacier, it is free!!"
Revisited the Athabasca recently and was disappointed to find that you must buy tickets to the Skywalk even if you don't use them. There should be an option to visit one or the other and both if you want. Went with a couple and neither of us had the time or interest to use the Skywalk. The Glacier was its usual glorious self however the trip was spoilt by the waste of money on our behalf of having to pay for something which didn't interest us.
"Park your car and trek up to the overlook facing the glacier (it is quite high so it is a bit exerting) or enjoy the view from the large Inn with food courts and restrooms that faces it, next to Hwy 93. The glacier is proof of climate change! I'd seen other glaciers which are more impressive (Perito Moreno in Patagonia or Mont Blanc in Chamonix) but this one has its charm too."
85 dollars for a trip to a slushy bus park. Avoid this biggest tourist rip off we've found in Canada so far.
This is our second visit in 3 years and we can certainly see the reduction in the size of the glacier. The guide mentioned that it is receding at a rate of around 40-50 feet a year and we believe her.See it before it is gone...
"I would rate this between a 4 and 5. It's a fairly rugged hike up to it and we saw several folks turn around. The wind can be very strong walking up to the glacier, so be prepared and dress accordingly. Even though you can see it from the parking lot, the weather does tend to get worse as you climb and get closer to Athabasca. If you can't make the climb, it's still worth the drive to the parking lot as you get a very good view of the glacier from there."
It a beautiful and very interesting place to go. Amazing pictures after a small hike upto the glacier. It has markers all the way up the walk so you can see where the glacier used to be years before as it recedes further and further up the mountain. Tours and guided walks are available. There is also a information centre to visit.
"this is a great place for almost all ages on a nice sunny day. You can walk to the toe of the Glacier and enjoy the view (10 min easy walk) or pay for a tour and go onto the glacier to enjoy it. If you take the tour with the Antarctica vehicle it a combo which comes with the skywalk. Make sure you get to the skywalk in time and have at least 1 hour to complete it with the free audio guide, as they close at 6:45 PM. This means your last tour for the glacier has to be at no later than 4PM to leave you at least 1 hour at the skywalk!"
"This is a must do for everyone. Rug up, it's cold up there!Allow about an hour to go in the bus then the all terrain vehicle.20 mins up, 20 mins back, 20 mins there.Be patient in the queue. Today there were 90 coaches booked in to do tours, plus all the other people who drove there.Fresh snow on the ground was good as it wSnt quite as slippery. Need to wear shoes with some traction or good tred.cafe us busy all the time but the line moves fast and things aren't badly priced.Souveneers shop was also at good prices but again lots of people there.There is a free movie too but we didn't get too See it.Heaps of cubicles in the rest room. No waiting here!"
Not in the same league as many of the Alaskan Glaciers eg Hubbard Glacier for sheer size.. but should not be missed if in the area.Sadly the glacier has receded by 60% since the mid 1800's and there is a sign showing the 1982 position - now the foot of the glacier is some hundreds of metres further up the glacial valley.The height of the moraine shows how high it was in the past.A relatively easy climb from the carpark if taken slowly. They do warn of altitude and thin air but well worth the time to visit.Wear warm clothes as it is very cold! The temperature today 18 Sept 16 was 3degrees!
"Whilst we didn't get the bus up to the glacier itself due to our budget, you can drive to the car park near enough to the foot of the glacier and hike up to the glacier. You can't actually walk on the glacier this way but you get great photo opportunities."
"Shame this will be gone in about 83 years but a reminder of how precious our planet is. Quite a way to drive to get here but worth a visit if you are already in the area. We had Super Kyle drive us into the ice and his jokes are genuinely funny. Make sure you are back on the explorer in time or you could face a long wait for a space back down! Also you can take a bottle to try the glacier water if you like. Didn't try this, had mixed reviews from other people we spoke to who tried it."
"We drove to the bottom parking lot and walked to the toe of the glacier, and the markers indicating the glaciers retreat over the last 150 years or so is quite sobering. It's a short but very steep walk to the toe of the glacier but we did it in trainers. Well worth the effort but whilst accepting the consequences of natural climate change, you do wonder what the consequences of buses on the glacier really are. Not to be missed, especially if you haven't seen a glacier, but unsure of the benefits of going on to the glacier itself"
"Okay.I may over exaggerate, but the glacier has receded much, even since the 1980's.If you don't want to pay for the vehicle ride that takes you out on to the Glacier itself, and we didn't, take the trek up to the glacier where you can feel the higher elevation, and the cold air surrounded you as the view gets better and better.The glacier looks so much smaller than I thought, and could be due to many factors including industrialization and global warming.It's still a natural wonder in my eyes and I am glad we took the time to see it on our trip."
"This is an extraordinary experience for those who have not been able to see a glacier , dont do the sky walk ( bundled together) a complete waste of time"
"It's a steep hike, make sure you come prepared with the right shoes. Hiking onto the glacier made it worthwhile but if you just climb the hill and walk to the face of the glacier it's a little bit like going to see a dirty snow bank. You have to get up on it for it to be worthwhile."
The Ice Explorer took us to the glacier where we enjoyed walking on the glacier and seeing up and close. You can carry water bottle to fill glacial water. It is sad to learn that in about 75-100 years the glacier will melt and it gives us more reasons to take climate change seriously.Must visit when you are in Banff or Jasper. Lifetime experience :-)Tips: Wear sturdy shoes so that you could easily walk on the ice without slipping
"WOW! What a spectacular, breathtaking view! My family was awestruck! We will be back to experience it again in future!"
A visit to the glacier is an experience of a lifetime. You have a choice of hiking out or going by bus (two buses actually) one for the easy ride and the other with giant snow tires to negotiate the steep incline and the glacier itself.
"This poor, overused glacier is the equivalent of a sideshow alley bear. It has been cribbed, cabinned and confined; up close it is mangy and spends it's day being swarmed over by hordes of tourists who are being overcharged for the privelidge of being dropped on a tiny fenced in space of dirty ice with standing room only, given a few minutes to take a photo with the caged beast and then whisked back to the ""interpretive centre"" to be crammed in with all the thousands of others being conned and offered substandard food at exhorbitant prices and zero service. Please don't visit, you'll be as disappointed and disgusted as we were and you're only helping to keep this poor glacier captive and downtrodden"
"I first saw Athabasca Glacier as a young child, and it totally amazed me then. That amazement is still there, but at a different level. It amazes me the change in only 50 years. Where the toe of the glacier used to be almost to the road, you now drive off the road a long way to the parking lot, and then have a bit of a hike to see the toe. and whereas the height of the toe and adjoining glacier used to be quite tall, the volume has shrunk considerable.But still what an amazing sight to see. I would advise everyone to take a stop and a walk, paying particular attention to the year signs that indicate where the toe was in preceding years, and I am sure you will be as amazed as I was.And if you have time, take the ice explorer snocoach out onto the glacier, and get out and walk on the ice. Stunning and take your breath away moment.Being there, and seeing the change in the volume of ice over a very short period of time is a very humbling experience.Thinking back to when I first visited until now, and realizing how short a time that really was, then letting the change in the ice really sink in - definitely gave me great pause, and hopefully a bit of an awakening.Spectacular for so many reasons - and a true must see."
"What it acts in having a big end to the glacier it more than makes up for in its setting. Huge mountains surround the ice flow that if you are lucky you will see gleam in the sun.It is well worth driving to the carpark at the base of the glacier and walking around. But do rug up, as it can be much colder down there."
"I was last there in 1973. The glacier has receded since then, but is still large. The setup is different. There is a large visitors center where you park and line up. Everyone boards a bus that drives across the street to the ice vehicles. You then load onto the ice vehicle which drives out onto the glacier where you have about 30 minutes to explore and take photos. The bus picks you back up and takes you to the skywalk. You can't just purchase a glacier ticket, you have to buy a combo, but you can ask the bus to drop you back at the visitor center instead of going to the skywalk. The skywalk is nice, but not nearly as good as the glacier. We got on the 9:30am tour which was nice because we had the glacier to ourselves."
All equipment you need is provided on the walk so I seriously suggest you do it. Our tour guide and her dog were amazing. You'll get to fill your bottle up with glacier water if you want to and try some glacier ice. Recommend this as part of your visit to Canada!
"We visited the Athabasca Glacier on our recent drive up the Icefields Parkway. We stopped off at the Icefields Centre to take in the magnificent views of the glacier, which is gigantic. It was great to have the opportunity to see something so spectacular with from close range.The views from the elevated platforms at the Icefield Center are excellent (but avoid the center itself - see separate review).An awesome sight, and a must-see on any trip along the Icefields Parkway."
We went on the glacier with the snow coaches. The view was lovely. But we were given on 15 minutes when we reach the glacier to appreciate its beauty and take picture. This is definitely not enough time. For the time we took to get there and to just spend 15 minutes is a waste of our efforts and money. I think the company should review the time there. They seem to be working on clockwork At least half an hour after all the time and money spent.
"Here one can walk on a glacier, they say keep off but they allow coaches and guided tours on the glacier so go on yourself. Path up heavy going for 69 year old, worse coming down as loose underfoot. Amazing sight."
"out people come to ""see"" the glacier in buses but never really experience it. We went with one of the Glacier Guides up onto the glacier. She was terrific explaining the history and the science behind the glaciers. We were given crampons to put on out feet and no one fell. Several of used hiking sticks which I would recommend. Very fun. Not too strenuous. Worth paying for the guided trip. Wear sturdy shoes. Everyone in our group had on hiking boots.Also - it's cold on the glacier even though it was a relatively hot day. Wear layers!"
"This is a review of the RV campground/parking lot across the road from the Athabasca glacier. This 'campground' during the daytime is simply a parking lot, but a few RVers stay overnight - less than 20 each of the three nights that we were there. Self-registration is $15.70; cash or credit card. It is unserviced but is next to the Icefields Discovery Centre which has a cafeteria, restaurant, washrooms (no showers), and a Parks Canada Information booth with free WiFi. There is no cell phone coverage in the area, but there are pay phones. There is garbage disposal but no recycling. As the Athabasca glacier is directly across the road, the views of the glacier are spectacular!!! After the day trippers leave by 5pm, this is a most peaceful and beautiful place."
"This was so pleasing to the eyes! It's soooo beautiful to view the glacier. On one side, it's the snow capped mountain, on the other side it looks like you are standing in the middle of the desert. We did not go up but viewed it from the parking lot - it was beautiful. Superrrr windy though."
A very well oiled tourist destination. The guides were very entertaining and made the experience a lot of fun. Make sure have good shoes on as the ice is very slippy. And it is very cold although we did see people in summer wear. Worth it.
"Not many places (without much walking) can you stand on a glacier in 20mins. However only enough time for a few photos (10minutes), try and take some up in the bus this will save you time. Cold on the glacier and need firm footing as it was a bit slushy and slippery up there. Our guide knew enough information about the surrounds and also about the Ice Explorer itself. The tyres were almost as tall as me!!"
If only I had more time. I would've spent hours here just admiring the majestic views. Definitely do the Ice Explorer with Brewster. We bought the Ultimate Explorer pack and definitely saw the value. Bring up a few bottles/bladders and fill up on the delicious glacier water!
"Not sure why this and the icefield are really listed as two entries because the glacier is part of the icefield, but it is an incredible sight. We did the icewalk, which was a great way to experience it up close. Especially when you see the buses coming and going, they look ridiculous and seem like they'd be contributing to the demise of the landscape...but the parking lot views and nearby trails are great, and if you can get on a guided icewalk I highly recommend it."
"This is a very accessible glacier. Check out Brewster Canada to book tickets to get on the glacier, its lots of fun. You can also just go to the view point and take pictures, I did also see people who booked private guides who actually walked them up to the glacier. I wish I would of done that, don't miss the opportunity."
"Serene, awe inspiring, barren, deadly, and majestic. The Athabasca Glacier is spell bounding! Take the walk to the ""toe,"" but dress accordingly as it is cold. We met families in shorts and tank tops that were absolutely freezing!"
"The Athabasca Glacier guide ice walk tour was an experience to cherish. This 3-hour guided tour too us into the glacier and there was ample stops for our guide to explain facts about the glacier. It was amazing to see creeks in the ice and take a peek into mill wells. Definitely worth the effort and time. Must carry water, snacks and warm clothes especially cap and gloves."
"We took the Ice Explorer trip with Brewster Attractions and it was absolutely disappointing. First of all, there is a total chaos at the Icefield Centre: too many people, too many lines for the same thing in different places and contradictory signs, and very few staff helping or indicating. We booked our tickets by internet and validate them in one of the desks. The whole trip is about 1 hour and 30 minutes, what they don't tell you is that you'll only stay 15 minutes in the glacier (and what part of the glacier). You'll spend 90% of the time in a bus (first) and in a big truck -Ice Explorer- (after). During the ride, the driver makes the role of a tourist guide and speaks about the environment, the landscape and some curious things... but you'll only be able to hear him if you travel in the front part of the bus and almost nowhere in the truck because the noise inside is awful (you'll feel like you are just inside the motor) and the sound system is really deficient. Once in the glacier you'll discover that all the beautiful and wonderful images you've seen in the screens in the Icefield Centre and in the website are just a fake: you won't be able to see that in this trip, maybe if you take a walk-through-the-glacier tour or a helicopter you'll see the glacier as beautiful as they show it in the videos. You'll go out of the truck and you'll have only 15 minutes to walk in some kind of circumference terrace of about 50-70 meters of diameter, with many many many other people, because your truck won't be the only one, there will be 5 or 6 more parked right there in the terrace, so if you look down that's all you'll see. Furthermore, if you look up to the glacier tongue you'll see nothing more than a snowplow they use to maintain the terrace and a big pile of snow (which has been moved by the snowplow). You won't be able to see the real ice, the crevices or anything, because the snow pile covers the views. So, to summarize, you'll pay a huge amount of money to get on a bus, to get on a truck and to fight with more than 100 people to take a decent photo and fill your empty bottle with glacier water."
Drove the parkway.Stopped here in the western car park to take photos.Popped into the tourist centre to use the loos.Did not walk on the glacier with the tours as we had little time; partner struggles to walk on uneven ground and ..... why contribute to the erosion?
"The day was bright, sunlight shone through the clouds. It’s warmth a welcome embrace. Parking was a tight embrace, full, full, free. The incline was steady, the sweat on our napes blown off by the hand of the wind. The sight was beautiful, as are all glaciers. Held back behind lashes of ropes, we never had the pesos to thread the magnificently cool ice through our fingers. With the only option to remain warm was to continue walking the laced circuit, or risk the embarrassment of doing squats in front of the nature viewers, we meandered back to the car, navigating the snoozing rocks, and once enclosed, only nostalgia of the beautiful glacier can bring us back."
"This is probably one of the glaciers with easiest access. You can see it from the Icefields Parkway but it is worth parking the car and doing the short hike to the 'Toe of the Glacier'. It takes 30 - 40 min but you get very close to the glacier, it is amazing. It is also possible to do a guided tour but we thought that the information provided on the posters in the trail was enough.It is one of the stops you must do if you're driving from Banff to Jasper."
"We had previous experience of helicopter landing in a glacier in NZ; but Athabasca gave us totally a different experience. We were taken in an ice explorer bus with huge wheels, down a steep section to get to the glacier. The bus ride was also interesting as the driver gave us an informative intro with a sense of humour. Walking on the open glacier with the back drop of snow clad mountains was exciting. Looking at the glacier I thought it could be slippery, but not at all. There were red chairs for taking photos which was kind of cute. I wish we had more time to stand and enjoy the view. A must for all age groups visiting this area"
"I think someone said that this is the most popular site in the Rockies. It's a great experience. Initially you enjoy the view of the glacier from the visitor centre and enjoy a Chinese buffet lunch. Then you go down to the buses which take you up onto the glacier as the glacier melts around you. Then you step out onto the glacier and fill your water bottle (don't forget to bring an empty one) with ice cold glacier melt water and take a drink. Then it's time to enjoy some time walking about on the glacier, enjoying the view and taking your photo's. The bus then returns you back. A unique experience not to be missed."
"We did the Icecubes 3 hour walk tour and is was about absolutely fantastic and well worth while. The 5 hour walk goes a bit further than us, but 3 hours was ample and the guide said that we don't see much more. They supply boots and jackets if you don't have them. They also supply sprigs for your boots so you get a good grip of the ice. The glacier is receding at around 40 metres a year which is scary. We were fortunate to see 2 avalanches on our walk, which were about 2 km away"
"Viewing the glacier is a great experience that should be taken advantage of by anyone who is in the area. It is wonderful to see an amazing aspect of nature and it is very much worth the short hike to get to it. There are information boards placed near the glacier so that visitors may learn more about how the glacier is formed and how it is being negatively affected by human activity. There are also markers around the site which clearly show how rapidly the glacier is shrinking. All of these information boards and markers advocate the preservation of the glacier, however Brewster travel company makes money by taking people on bus tours on the glacier. Obviously this will have an impact on this area that should be protected.They are exploiting nature for a profit. Even if these tours teach people about the importance of protecting the glacier, surely the message is lost being preached from a heavily polluting vehicle thundering on a vast expanse of nature that must be protected. The company operates a 'visitors center' across the road from the glacier however this has no information about the glacier it is just a space to sell tickets to the company's various attractions around the glacier including the bus tour. It also includes a gift shop where you can buy various souvenirs from the glacier. Overall a visit to the Athabasca glacier is an essential part of any visit to the Jasper National Park as it is an excellent opportunity to look see a glacier at a relatively close distance. Just don't give the travel company any more money to fund its polluting attractions."
"This is an amazing site to see. It is a must see, must do for anyone's list while in the Canadian Rockies. We went up to the glacier by Ice Explorer. The driver has lots of information to share. The ride is the way to go for people who want to spend a bit of time on the Athabasca Glacier and not wear out from hiking. Don't forget your camera.I had shoes with good gripping but I wish I had my ice grippers to slip on to make walking on the glacier easier. It was not a windy or cold day so I didn't really need to bundle up. Saying that, I am from the northeast and used to cool weather. Those from Florida needed to bundle. There is a restaurant/cafeteria type area at the bottom of the attraction before you start up the road to the glacier. I was impressed with the selection of food. The bathrooms are in that building and a gift shop."
"The trailhead parking area for the hike to Athabasca Glacier is not very big, but we were lucky and found a spot. There is a much bigger lot across the highway at the Ice Center, but your hike will more than double in length. The hike to the toe of the glacier is mostly uphill, so wear good sturdy footwear. Dress for the weather. The day we hiked up, the weather was sunny and mild. My wife wore a jacket and I was in shirtsleeves since I was backpacking our dog. We were hoping we could touch the glacier, but the toe of the glacier is blocked off and only guided tour groups can get to the glacier itself. So we went as far as we could go and the view of the glacier was still fantastic. But, still disappointed we couldn't touch the ice. We didn't have the time, but I recommend signing up for a walking tour on the glacier or a ride up on one of the glacier mobiles. Still, we had a great time!"
"We took the guided three hour hike on the Athabasca Glacier (called ice walk). From a distance, the glacier looks flat, once you start hiking it, it is full of streams, waterfalls, mill holes and crevasses. It is amazing. I was a little concerned about danger bringing my child (9 years old) however with the guide I felt completely safe for our well being. I was debating between the bus tour or the walk and so glad I chose the walk, experience of a lifetime."
"We hiked the Forefield Trail to the toe of Athabasca Glacier. It was a cold misty day which added to the atmosphere. You can see the glacial debris and the lateral moraines and there are some information posts where I learned that the melt from this Athabasca glacier flows into 3 oceans: the Pacific, Atlantic & Arctic and worryingly, that it has reduced by 60% since 1885. There were also warnings about the dangers of walking beyond the roped off areas onto the glacier itself. My only previous experience of a glacier was in a remote area of north west Pakistan where in fact I did walk onto the glacier and heard the constant movement booming under the ice. I don’t recommend it as crevices can open up or you can step on what you think is firm ground only to discover that it is only a layer of ice over a crevice and you can easily fall down into it."
"This is my first time to see let alone walk on glacier and it is just amazing. We booked the walk thru brewster and from the ride on the ice mobile to stepping on the glacier, marvel at the awe and massiveness!!! Nothing like it!!! I highly recommend snow boots so you feel stable walking and turning taking pics. I drank some glacier water. They say the glacier water is good for you. Will see!!!"
The entrance to the free walk is on the right side of the road. Not the side with the info centre. If you don't want to specifically go on the glacier just do the free walk. Be prepared for a hard 1.8km round trek but worth the effort!
The icefields parkways is just beautiful and athabasca glacier is the highlight.. Its a lovely excursion on to the top of the glacier.. Its wonderful to walk on the glacier and see small rivulets of water flowing.. Very beautiful Wear proper layered clothing and shoes as its quite windy at the top
"We took the tour onto the Glacier, the guide was excellent and shared much about the scenery, the glacier and some of the history, if only I'd taken notes!!!!
Well worth the experience of actually standing on a glacier and taking in all around."
"An opportunity to take a ride on a glacier in safety. You travel on purpose built 6 wheel vehicles which are able to drive over the extreme slope of the old lateral moraine. Our guide was friendly and informative explaining the science of the glacier and its recession over the last 150 years. You get the opportunity to walk on a roped level area of the glacier for about 30 minutes. If you have no soul then this just a walk on a bit of ice. It is however 300 ft deep, constantly moving and a wonder of nature. There is a constant wind blowing of the ice field above so wear appropriate clothing and shoes"
"No visit to Banff or the Ice Fields Parkway would be complete without a stop at the Athabasca Glacier. There are two parking lots where you can stop for great photos, but you won't want to miss the opportunity to walk out on the glacier. Begin your visit in the Discovery Center to purchase tickets for the glacier walk. They will give you departure time. Even if you've already pre purchased your ticket, you still need to go to the pre-purchased line to get a departure time. The first bus drives across the street and close to the glacier. The guide is funny and informative. Then you board the iconic Snow Coach you see in all the ads. The driver provides additional information about glaciers in general and the Athabasca Glacier in particular. Finally, you arrive on the glacier and are free to walk around for 30 minutes. It's cold and windy, so dress warmly. On the glacier: Take picturesGet a sip of the crisp glacier water (yum!)Put your camera away and enjoy a very unique experienceYou ride the same Snow coach back to the bus bay where you board a charter bus that takes you first to the Sky Walk and then continues back to the Discovery Center. The glacier is very crowded with people flitting around trying capture the ""perfect"" picture, but who forget to savor the experience. Walking on a glacier is one of those real ""once-in-a-lifetime"" experiences, so enjoy Mother Nature at her slowest."
I was traveling through Trans Canada highway 16 when it took me through this park to get to Idaho. Wow! The Glaciers were absolutely stunning. I wish it was a clearer day to see more! The mountains and waterfalls were equally as gorgeous but be prepared to drive super slow and people slamming on their brakes in the road to see wildlife.
We undertook a visit to the Glacier as part of our Canadian tour. We were taken out to the Icefields by coach and then boarded the Ice Explorer to go on to the glacier. The tour guide was a young lady who had a great sense of humour. We spent about a half hour walking on the glacier. The cafe at the site offered excellent food and souvenirs.
"We used a guided tour (Ice Walk) with a very knowledgeable guide to hike onto the glacier itself in July. You can only go about halfway up, and i was disappointed we couldnt go to the top to the level of the icefield. Apparently it can be done in winter and the icefield can be cross-country skied. Maybe a half mile from parking lot to toe of glacier, then half mile to limit of hike. Ice Walk provided crampons. Cools down significantly on a glacier with a wind coming down from the top."
Absolutely an amazing place. It is a must ti go on a ice explorer and do it fast as we were told it is melting fast. The place you can stop and book this trip has great views from the deck plus toilets and a cafeteria. I encourage anyone to go.
"This tourist stop is a bit in the expensive side but worth it! The trip into the glacier was exciting, slippery & lots of fun. We hoisted the Aussie flag and took lots of pictures. On the day we visited it was freezing so take a water proof jacket. Watch where you walk as it was pretty slippery in spots."
"My trip to ther Athabasca Glacier was one I won't ever forget! Not only were the surroundings picture perfect, the experience of standing on a glacier was awe-inspiring. To realize that the glacier is not as large as it once was, made me ponder the questions ""Are events in nature cyclical?"" or ""How much truth is there in the claims many make regarding global warming?"" Either way, I highly recommend this activity for all who love nature and want to witness it firsthand."
No need to pay to go ON the glacier as there is parking just off the highway and a path up to the glacier's tongue
"We took a Brewster tour of the Athabasca Glacier and Ice Fields and it was the WOW experience of the trip. The incline down to the glacier is breath-taking - roller-coaster like. Then to be able to wander around on this impressive ""river of ice"" was amazing. We loved the ""beach chairs"" set up for the photo ops. What a great experience!"
"After you arrive at the Columbia Icefield Glacier Discovery Center (from the Icefields Parkway - Highway 93), you can park your car in the parking lot. Be prepared for parking lot congestion because this is a popular attraction during the tourist season. You can purchase a glacier adventure ticket ($80.00/adult) in the Discovery Center. Then, you will queue up to board a bus that will transport you to the boarding area for the all-terrain Ice Explorer vehicles. The Ice Explorer vehicles are huge and will seat many people. The Ice Explorer vehicle will slowly move (it feels really slow, as if it is creeping) onto the surface of the Athabasca Glacier. When the vehicle finally stops, you can exit, and look around the glacier for about 15 minutes. The glacier is pearly white, icy, slippery, and slushy in some places - so walk carefully - especially if you're walking on the slippery ice. It was windy when I visited and cold. So, I wore a light winter parka and wore hiking boots. Bring your camera for some good photos. Take an empty bottle of water with you and fill it with some of the freshly melted glacier water - it is cold and very refreshing."
"Having read so many bad reviews on TA about the crowd/wait in discovery center , we decided to skip that and the bus ride to the top. Right opposite the discovery parking lot, there is a narrow road that leads up about 1/2 km down to a parking lot (you can drive the path to the parking lot below). We parked at the bottom near the information boards. We hiked up the path to the toe of the Athabasca glacier. It is roughly a mile up to the top. The path is rocky and was slippery since it was still wet from the morning rain. At the top, the proximity to the glacier was awe inspiring - we were within 50 feet of the glacier. They had several markers along the way depicting how soon the glacier is receding. We were saddened to read that we were actually walking on what was a part of the glacier about 30 years ago (global warming). Overall a very educational and awesome experience. The best things in life are free!"
"We did a day trip out of Lake Louise. The scenery along the road is just absolutely stunning. The glacier is cool. Get out of your car, trudge up the short path and just be amazed at the geology and the glacier. Huge lateral moraines. Look at the rocks at your feet as you walk up. You can see the scratches in the stone from when the glacier etched them as it retreated. Awesome. The visitor center is pretty much a waste of time unless you want a sandwich or soda to take away with you. There appear to be sign-ups for tours and there is a small park service exhibit in the basement (which was pretty average to dull) but otherwise, it is filled with hordes of people doing something not related to the glacier - mostly getting food or a trinket at the gift shop. See the glacier, get a sandwich, and head back out on the road."
"Truly remarkable. From the terminal, a coach takes you on a five minute ride to a larger vehicle that takes you on a 10 minute very cool slow ride down the steepest unpaved grade of dirt road in North America to get to the glacier. I recommend one to take a water bottle to capture some cool refreshing glacier water to drink. The guides are full of information and the view is breathtaking ."
This was a cool place. We didn't take a tour so we couldn't get too close but it was worth the short hike up.
"Went on a tour of the glacier on the ice explorers. It was amazing getting to walk on the glacier itself and there were some stunning views. The guides and drivers (Sandra, Dakota and Patrick) were informative and very entertaining. Highly recommend."
"Part of the columbia icefields, it is worth visiting. One of the few places like this that can be visited without a super long hike or a helicopter ride."
Did the 3hour ice walk on the glacier which was the highlight of my trip to Canada. Our tour guide was very informative and the entire experience was truly fascinating
"WHAT AN EXPERIENCE.Forget the coaches - if you get the chance, do a hike up the glacier! We were lucky enough to have Bernard lead us across on our hike, for 2 hours right up the middle of the glacier. Winter wear and crampons were provided so there was no excuse! So many photos! It went from sun to snow in seconds, meaning we got such a beautiful range of snaps. Absolutely worth it if you get the chance. What an experience.Bear in mind that the visitors centre was incredibly packed with tourists so if you can get down the glacier, do that instead!"
"We visited on a weekday and traffic was relatively light coming from Canmore. The drive along the Icefields Parkway from Hwy 1 is visually spectacular, but it's close to 2 hours to the Columbia Icefield Discovery Center. We stopped partway at Num Ti Jah to stretch our legs. Arriving at the Discovery Center, you get your tickets and wait for the bus. There's a small cafeteria (sandwiches were simple but ok) and a gift shop. The buses and Ice Explorer vehicles have seats which may feel cramped if you're tall or large, and they're pretty strict on having small kids sit on parent's laps in order to fully load the vehicles. It was sunny and warm for our visit, and we were comfortable in shorts and light outerwear. Sneakers were a little slippery on the ice though. It's fascinating to learn and see how much the glacier has changed and receded over time. Our next stop was the Glacier Skywalk, which has a self-guided audio tour before you get onto the Skywalk itself. This was a little crowded since part of the Skywalk was closed due to maintenance, but the 360 degree views were breathtaking. Don't spend too much time looking down if you're acrophobic. Overall we liked the glacier experience along with the anecdotal commentary from our tour guides Evangeline, Ness and Alex. This ended up being an all-day trip with a lot of driving, but it was worth it."
We traveled to the discovery centre and then got on the Brewster Bus for the glacier. The bus takes you to the entrance where you transfer to another big red bus that takes you to the glacier. Our driver was Ness and she was fantastic. She was very knowledgable and put anyone at ease if they were nervous with the steep incline or decline depending on which way you were headed. It was well worth going to visit the glacier and really puts our impact on our earth and our country into perspective.
"Seeing the Columbia Ice Fields was a highlight of our trip, and we were there in the ""shoulder season"". We were cheek to jowl with hundreds of people at the visitors center. Getting a table to have a snack was close to impossible. We were very surprised at the number of buses and people. The lines for tickets went back and forth and back and forth. You can drive to a parking lot near the the glacier and then walk to the edge without buying a ticket. Tickets will board you on the glacier-travelling snow coach. It is the easiest glacier to view and visit in North America and well worth the crowds!"
Great experience. Well organised. Drank from the fountain of youth... Don't think it worked but good fun. Freezing cold... Dress warm
Too many people..Unorganized (people exiting buses in between lines of people boarding buses) Bus trouble so we had to stand too long in the cold. FULL of tour groups. Book last tour of the day to avoid groups or walk to glacier toe on your own. I hear it's worse in July and Aug and the place was a ZOO in June.
"This was the highlight of our Canadian Rockies train trip. NESS, our snow coach driver made the trip a blast. She has us making moose ear gestures to the new driver and gave us a minute by minute account of what was about to happen. Walking on an ice glacier was awesome. Be sure to dress warm. I think we were out on it for only 15 minutes, but it was windy and freezing!"
"It's my third (and last) time doing this tour. If you've never been then the thrill of riding on one of those giant vehicles it might be worth it. Standing on the glacier though has become a droll, crowded and noisy experience. I was awestruck by the serenity and vastness the first two times. Despite the fact we went extremely early to avoid the crowds it was crazy. So now you get to stand on a tiny patch of ice with just no room to move with large crowds, loud chatter and picture taking as the main objective. I did not appreciate one bit being informed by the driver of the strict 25 minute time limit after being told on the phone and at the ticket counter that there is NO restriction on his much time one could spend on the glacier. The skywalk is decent but one should have the option of not being forced to pay for this if you don't want to do it for any reason such as fear of heights (my wife) etc."
"Quiet sad to see how abused the Athtbasca Glacier has been treated. Just full of tourist handing over their money to see and be a part of ""wilderness"". After being in the rockies for the last 2 weeks then seeing this was a disappointment. Humans destroying what once would of been a magical place to visit. Wouldn't even recommend stopping."
"We were lucky to walk up to the front of the glacier (did not go onto the glacier itself) during a cold and fairly wet afternoon, which considerably reduced the number iof tourists from the crowds in the information centre. It's a stunning view, and to think of the thousands of km that this river emerging from the huge mass of ice on the Columbia Icefields will cross up to the Arctic ... mind-boggling."
"It was a great experience to go up the Athabasca Glacier. It all runs very smoothly and being up there is definately something special. However, the amount of tourist going up and walking around in a rather small area was bothering and put me off a bit. You cant get a picture without an other person in your shot."
"Thank you to Ness for the great driving and lighthearted, very informative commentary and background history. Highly recommend this tour."
The Athabasca falls are more famous than the glacier but the glacier is equally wonderful to visit. We stopped by on our way from Jasper to Lake Louise.
"Great experience going onto the glacier despite the fact a rain storm hit as we got off the bus. Our driver, Kyle, enhanced the experience with his friendly, funny but knowledgeable commentary. We'll worth a visit."
"I blame myself for just writing a review after months has passed. Now I can only look at the memory fondly and remember my fingers getting numb from holding a block of ice. I do remember it being quite beautiful, the guides were nice and funny, and the information they relay (sadly I did not retain) was informative."
"What an experience to take an ice buggy onto the glacier!!
Once on the glacier, we walked around and even drank some of the fresh water/runoff.
A unique experience and a lot of fun."
"If you visit the Banff National Park, then a visit to the Athabasca Glacier is a ""must do"". Getting to the glacier is by a specialist 30 -ton ice vehicle, which you sign up for at the Visitors' Centre. Great fun and highly redommended."
"We decided to visit the Glacier Center, then take a bus out to board the ice buggy onto the Athabasca Glacier. Not often during a lifetime are you able to actually walk on top of a real glacier and this was a once-in-a-lifetime adventure. Our diesel-powered ice buggy traversed down a really steep incline, then up onto the glacier surface. Next, we walked down the ramp and onto the icy glacier and took many photos of other people. The melt water ran along the edge of the glacier and you could dip a container into that stream and drink the ice-cold water. We made our way back onto the ice buggy and back to the visitors center to buy some souvenirs. What an awesome way to spend an afternoon, visiting a glacier that may not still be around 50 years from now."
"Although the price of taking the bus tour to the top of this glacier is outrageously high, it is definitely a must do splurge. Things have changed since 1968 when far fewer tourists visited & the glacier has greatly receded since then. At that time instead of large tour buses with gigantic tires, it was more adventurous with small armored vehicles with caterpillar tracks. Today it is big business, but it remains absolutely spectacular!"
Athabasca Glacier was one of many highlights on our Canadian trip in 2012. As my husband has spent many years in Antarctica we actually walked up onto the glacier ourselves. Don't really think you are supposed to do tis but what a thrill to stand on something so old and son wonderful. I would have loved to have gone on the big snow trucks they have there.
"This place is really beautiful, unfortunately this means that there is a lot of touriss an touris infrastructure which detracts from the natural beauty of it all and it's something of a piccadilly circus of tourist busses.I would reccommend this to those who are brave enough to go it alone, with your own gear or hire some...although this may be very dangerous I believe it is the only way to really experience such a stunning place.I made the mistake of thinking this was alike to the Glacier Hikes at Franz Joseph and Fox Glacier in New Zealand where you actually get up and into the ice and climb through caves.In fact to do what you do on this 15 minutes 'tour' where you all but touch he edge of the ice you can do for free in New Zealand by way of a simple and easy hike. A couple of hundred dollars and you can go climb/hike the glacier, for a little more you can chopper in or even sky dive from 18,000 feet in New Zealand.I feel that this was a waste of money, personally...however for the less adventurous who do not like a challenge of physical exertion then I suppose in that case this would be ideal.I would love one day to get right up on top of this amazing thing above the three steps and explore up there."
I loved the whole Canadian Rockies region! Absolutely stunning views and it was great in summer. Standing on the glacier was amazing. Definitely worth visiting.
"Beautiful experience and to be able to stand on the glacier is just wow. It was really windy up there, be sure to dress appropriately."
"The third visit to this glacier, once in the summer of 1968, once in the summer of 2005. In between those dates the glacier has receded about a kilometer. This trip we saw it in the winter and it was not possible to see the foot of the glacier clearly. Summer offers more insights to the changing ecosystem, but it is a time mobbed with tourists. If you want to see it in its winter grandeur, take a trip on the snow packed Icefield Parkway and enjoy the mighty Athabasca in near solitude. The scale of the glacier and its surroundings combined with the near silence of being there alone is something special."
"Don't just look at the glacier, walk on it!Dress warm and have proper footwear. Don't be the fool out there with shorts, or the gal with high heels.The ride out to the glacier can be scary, with one very steep hill to cross over. The driver makes jokes about it."
On the one hand it's just snow and ice but stepping onto a glacier seems much more of an experience. It was a reasonably clear day when my wife and I took the trip via the Ice Explorer and it was worth every penny.
"Due to the rain we could not have a really close look at the glacier and had to watch it only from across the Ice Fields Highway, however, I felt lucky to be there and see its remains, while they are still there. Apparently, the glacier continues to melt slowly and most likely, in twenty years from now there may be very little left of its greatness.It probably is just the natural course of life and I wouldn't blame the phenomenon on any action on our behalf... However, if you want to see one of the truly special places on Earth, I believe this is one of them."
"I've stopped here during travels a number of times, July 2015, July 2010, and August 1996. During approach on foot, one can easily view both the glacier/ice fields and the signposts marking the retreat of ice over the last century or so. Time being an unstoppable force, obviously changes much over a number of decades, but this attraction has lost some of its appeal in that previous access is now gone due to safety fears. 2010 I even did some ice climbing here and one could simply walk from one's car, up and onto the ice and enjoy a little jaunt about. Now, access is exclusively by specialised vehicle at a cost inaccessible to many families. Unfortunately, with dry and dust, the ice just looks like a dirty driveway upon close inspection."
"We chose to park near the glacier and walk up towards it rather than going on one of the guided tours where you actually walk on the glacier. It was a nice walk up towards it and the view was spectacular, particularly as the clouds cleared. If we'd had lots of time we probably would have done the guided tour. Note its a small car park so you may have to wait for a space at peak times."
We did the 1st tour of the day and there were just 15 of us on the bus and the glacier. The Columbia Discovery Center is about 1.5hr away from Downtown Jasper and 2hrs away from downtown Banff.
Even though it was freezing this added to the attraction of this place. the trip up the glacier in a huge 4 wheel drive vehicle was worth the visit alone. Magnificent views and the staff at the hotel where we stopped for lunch were great
"An amazing experience to see a glacier in real life. Really wanted to go onto glacier without paying to ride onto it, so ask for a guided tour if you plan on doing that."
"A visit to Athabasca Glacier was an experience for us. OK, I know there are much larger, cleaner, and higher glaciers in the world, but this was in reach of my home in Oklahoma. We don't have glaciers in Oklahoma, so this was impressive to us and worth every penny. We will pause, then go back for the experience."
"Loved our visit here as part on a one day Brewster Excursion.
Couldn't visit this region without a trip out onto the Glacier. 20 minutes drive out, 20 minutes on the Glacier - this was more than enough for me, and 20 minute drive back."
"The glacier itself is beautiful, looking at it from the car park with the mountains surrounding it was quite surreal. I didn't take the bus up onto the glacier (using fossil fuels to add to global warming to speed up the glacier melting? really?) but instead walked along the trail to the edge of it. They have markers showing where the glacier was at particular points from about 1910 onwards, it was interesting seeing how much faster the glacier is disappearing now compared to 100 years ago."
"When coming to this exceptionally beautiful part of the world, the Athabasca Glacier is a must see. Extraordinary experience, worth the money. Once. Wouldn't go there again, considering the high price,"
"This was a unique and amazing experience to stand on a glacier as well as learn about their formation. The tour guides are informative and the drivers very capable, especially driving the large Ice Explorers down the 30 degree incline on to the glacier. I was also impressed with the respect the people have for protecting the glacier ice, including passing through a tyre wash to ensure gravel does not get on to and affect the ice surface.The turnaround area of the glacier is where you can spend about 20 minutes walking on the glacier and appreciating the enormity of the height and width of the formation.Although it was cold on the glacier, it was not as cold as we expected and we had a bonus when light snow started falling. It was also surprising to see the blue of the ice."
"It was a very wet & windy day, but it was still pretty cool to see up close. There's a lovely blue ice cave you can see on the right... I was definitely expecting to be able to get closer, as you used to be able to, but it seems all the barriers have been put up recently -- I'm sure due to safety, so I won't argue!"
"Absolutely breath taking! We drove to the base and then hiked up to the start of the glacier! The weather was nice and sunny on the way up, by the time we got to the top there was a blizzard coming in quickly and it was very windy. The hike is straight uphill. Not for the faint of heart. The view when you get to the top is very worth it and amazing! Glad we stopped and hiked to the top!"
"By the time we reached Athabasca Glacier we had been touring in Alaska and Canada for two weeks. We'd seen quite a few glaciers already and were ready to have a quick look and move on.However when we arrived we realised that the tractor-buses actually took you a long way up onto the glacier and allowed you to get out and walk around in a limited area. The buses left at intervals so that there were never too many people on the glacier at one time. The downside of that is that you have to book ahead or wait until the next available bus - in our case we waited about 45 mins although we were end of season - I guess it could be a lot longer in the high season.Anyway the driver talks about the glacier whilst driving you over to it and points out various geological landmarks. The drive over to the glacier is quite exciting in itself with a big dipper feel down and up section.Standing on the glacier is a really good experience.It costs $55 per person, so it's not cheap - but if you have an interest in geology or glaciers, or if it's your only opportunity to see a glacier - then it's well worth it."
"The glacier people moving vehicle is so so. If you want to take photos on the way up or back from the glacier sit in the front seats (virtually impossible there's so many people) of rely on someone opening a window or sit near one that opens. Once you get there make the most of your time. It's a wonderful experience to know you're walking on a glacier. After you take your photos and selfies be sure to take the time to stand still, look around and remeber exactly where you're standing."
"Athabasca Glacier is a thousand feet thick, the biggest glacier accessible by road, specifically Icefields Parkway. It’s an hour from Jasper and was a stop on our guided tour. In early September, we saw the first dusting of snow, which enhanced the beauty. Since this is such a popular attraction and easily accessible, many visitors converge here. I learned from the guide that in early morning there are fewer tourists, but our group appeared late in the afternoon, on the way to Jasper."
"Really wanted to visit this glacier but never realised how accessible it actually is from the Icefields Parkway. We opted to park in the free car park and walk up to the glacier and we were not disappointed. The views are breathtaking as you look around. Wrap up warm as it is very cold. Do think they're missing a trick though, as whilst there was a toilet there was no where to get a hot drink in the car park! Definitely worth a stop."
Need to climb a small hill to reach the Glacier. Not much to see. But it's the most accessible glacier along the glacier parkway. Worth 20 mins stop to take a look.
"Nice to see the glacier, lots of tourists and bus tours arrive here to allow their passengers a view of the glacier. Bring something warm to wear in the winter if you visit during that time."
You need a park pass (19.60CanDollars) to drive through Banff National Park . On the Trans Canada Highway you reach the Columbia Icefield. We took a trip on an Ice Explorer onto the Athabasca Glacier. The drivers are fun and informative on the short journey. You are able to get out and walk on the Glacier. All great fun!
"We were really looking forward to this experience before we went but found it a little disappointing. Maybe our expectations were a bit too high, or it could be because we'd seen several impressive glaciers in the few days beforehand or maybe because it snowed the day we drove along the Icefields Parkway so we were treated to lots of amazing views along the way and the glacier then seemed less impressive than we expected. Good points - the tour was very interesting. All the guides gave us lots of info about the glacier and it's surroundings, as well as the Ice Explorers used to transport us onto the ice - and our Ice Explorer driver was also incredibly funny and had the whole bus laughing. You get about 15 mins actually on the glacier to take pictures (that was plenty as it was still snowing!) and the whole operation is well organised and we felt it was well-priced. Bad points - the bit of glacier that you can walk on gets a bit churned up and there are 3-4 bus-loads of people on there at a time so it's quite busy. The cafe is quite expensive and the food was pretty uninspiring (take a packed lunch if you can). Overall, we're glad that we did the trip but it's not something that we would want to do again."
Accessible from the car park with a short walk. It is amazing how far the ice has receded in the last century. There are markers along the road and path. Getting close to a glacier is always amazing. They recommend guides if going on the glacier so you don't have an accident or problem. People have died there in the past.
"Walked up to the foot of the glacier, but you can actually do a tour and get on the glacier itself as well. The hike has a pretty steep section and you'll need a moderate level of fitness to do it. The view from the bottom is amazing.Close to this glacier is the Icefield Centre. When we arrived around lunch time, the parking lot was packed with cars and touring cars, so we decided to give it a miss."
Wished it could have been a nicer day but it was amazing. The blue of the ice is beautiful and you can't get fresher water than from the glacier so bring an empty water bottle.
Really enjoyed the bus ride to the glacier with the bus drivers doing their best to be entertaining. They fit a lot of information into the minutes spent driving. Standing on the glacier was an awesome experience.
"The Caravan tour to Athabasca Glacier was definitely worth the trip. At the bottom of the mountain it was a little chilly but, on the glacier above it was freezing and we found ourselves in the middle of a glacial blizzard! Bring a jacket!"
Went here on summer 2015 at the height of drought in which the glacier was a few meters less than during winter but our experience was nonetheless exciting. Took the Brewster Ice Explorer ride to the designated area of the Glacier and we were just in awe of its enormousity and beauty. Took lots of picture and selfies for everyone.
"As a group of us traveled from Jasper to the Columbia Icefield's Athabasca Glacier we did not really pay attention to the rain showers along the way. We were all too excited to finally visit a glacier firsthand. After all it was the end of August and what could go wrong. As we approached the reception center the rain turned to snow. Once inside the building we learned the tours were not being cancelled. Significant numbers of people were waiting for the buses and ""snowcat"" to be taken to the glacier. After we paid for our trip we boarded the bus which took us to an enormous snowcat type vehicle which shuttled us onto the glacier. The snowcat stopped and allowed us to walk onto the glacier which was now being covered up with snow. Visibility was about fifty feet so witnessing the mountain of ice was literally impossible. It was also very cold outside the snowcat besides the blowing snow. Once outside the snowcat the passengers took a couple of quick pictures and returned to the warmth of the snowcat for the ride back down to the reception center. This was an expensive ""non"" experience so if you decide to take this same adventure be sure that the weather conditions are good at all times of the year - especially summer."
"Plenty of people have reviewed the trip onto the glacier which is AMAZING but don't forget to do the hike to the top of the glacier. Markers along the route show where the foot used to be and there is a steep incline. However, beware, once reaching the top the wind took away our breath. If you're at all prone to earache wear a hat!! Bit of a surprise as quite calm when standing on the glacier."
"We chose to walk up to Athabasca Glacier rather than pay for the tour experience. Park in the lot across the highway from the Icefields Centre and take a walk up to the glacier. We had already gotten a good view of Athabasca Glacier from the deck at the centre, but we were even more impressed as we walked up the trail toward the glacier. It is big, cold, and awesome! We noted the sign that showed the endpoint of the glacier in years past -- a shame it is so rapidly receding. Even though the glacier has receded several yards inside the rope barrier, the close up view is still quite striking. The wind blew cold air toward us as we walked. Be sure to dress warmly, and take a hat and gloves."
"Some of the reviews noted that the glacier has shrunk greatly over the years, but for us 1st time visitors, it was an awesome experience. Just getting on the huge snowcoach with the big balloon tires was fun in itself & our guide was funny & informative. The 20 minute walk on the glacier was slushy but not particularly slippery. I brought a hiking pole, which wasn't necessary, although I would recommend it if you have one. I felt more secure having it. For the more adventurous there are guided hikes of several hours, but I was happy with my 20 minutes out on the glacier."
"This is an absolute must. The trip up the glacier was as exciting as being on the glacier, as there is a steep incline of about 18% before the Ice Explorer (a MASSIVE vehicle) crawls up to and stops on the glacier. It's quite mind-boggling to find yourself standing on a massive, 650m deep piece of ice. The views from up top are outstanding. We only had 20 minutes to explore, but if you miss your bus, I'm sure it wouldn't be a disaster, as buses are coming and going every few minutes. Be sure to dress in layers... even in the middle of summer it can get quite cold due to the winds. Bring a camera!"
"This was one of the best things I did while in Canada - to be able to actually walk on the glacier was awe inspiring with incredible view. Not as cold as I thought it would be but glad I wore a hat! Guide was great, stopping every now and then to show us features of the glacier and keeping us away from the crevices!! WAs fascinating to see how much it had retreated over the years and goes to remind you what we are doing to the planet. I would not go on the glacier on one of the big truck like vehicles that you can do - according to our guide this is aiding global warming and crushes up the ice - which you can see when you see the massive monster truck wheels and the exhaust fumes coming out of them! We were up walking on the glacier for a good 2 1/2 hours and I would highly recommend doing it this way - you feel very small once up there!"
One of the highlights of our trip. To be able to walk on this massive sheet of compressed snow and bask in its awe and wonder was a once in a lifetime experience. Filling up water bottles with glacier water was a bonus!
"The visitor center offers a lot of educational information. Great for families, backpackers, and large groups. There is the opportunity for an excursion ON THE GLACIER! Also, the short hike up to the toe of the glacier is invigorating."
"We first visited the Athabasca Glacier in 2007 (see my review). At that time we took the Glacier Mobile out onto the glacier. It was disappearing at that time, but it was nothing compared to now, 8 years later when it has drastically receded. I suggest you visit the Visitor Center first to decide how you want to see the glacier. The choice is the Glacier Mobile, Glacier Skywalk or you can just walk out there on a gravel path that used to be covered in ice and snow. It's unsettling to see such a majestic glacier melting at such a rapid rate.The Visitor Center has a restaurant, gift shop and clean restrooms. If you drive from Jasper to Banff or Banff to Jasper, you will be able to take in the entire Icefields Parkway, Columbia Glaciers and the Athabasca Glacier. We visited here in early June of 2007 and saw lots of wildlife. This trip at the beginning of September, we haven't seen any animals in the parks, and it's extremely crowded with hundreds of tour buses and large crowds at the main sites. I can only imagine what it's like in the summer. Come see the glaciers before they're gone."
"Not to be missed. Buy your tickets at the Ice Field Center. You will be taken on a short 4 minute bus ride to get on the ice explorer vehicle. On the ride to the glacier the driver gives an informative talk and is open to questions. Once at the ""turn around"" point you will have twenty minutes to roam around the glacier, fill a bottle with water from the glacial melt and take pictures. Twenty minutes is more than enough time to enjoy the experience. Be forewarned- You will be walking on ice- It is very cold and windy and need to be dressed in very warm clothes. I say this because I actually saw several people in shorts and bare feet with flip flops who were not able to stay outside for more than a minute or two. Warm clothes are an absolute must!"
"My husband and I were on a senior tour with 51 others exploring the amazing Canadian Rockies. The Athabasca Glacier Adventure was one of the attractions we experienced with Brewster Travel. How amazing this was! We went out to the Columbia Icefield where we boarded the Ice Explorer, a massive vehicle, specially designed for glacial travel. An experienced driver-guide shared a wealth of fascinating information about glaciers, icefields and their impact on our environment during a one hour and 20 minutes journey. The tours departs every 15-30 minutes from the Columbia Icefield Glacier Discovery Centre. $54.95 but an Glacier Explorer Package to include the skywalk for $79.95. Really a bargain for both attractions. We went on both and we are glad we did. Worth every penny! And you cannot say you've been to the Canadian Rockies without experiencing these two attractions. There was no problem with heights. Walking on the glacier was no problem at all for any of our seniors. Oh, and the awesome pictures. We filled our containers with the glacier water only to experience this wonder. Kind of a petro after taste. Your time is limited on the glacier so make it worth your while and snap, snap, snap. It was enough time for us to walk, take pictures and visit with our friends. But hurry up! Loved every minute of it! You have got to go!"
"You buy a ticket, stand in line, get on a big bus, go across the street get on the weird bus with big tires and drive over to the melting glaciers that you can see from the highway. I thought it was the ultimate tourist trap."
"Well worth the visit. The hike to the toe of the glacier would be ok, but at 78 the snocoach trip is so much easier and the driver/guide was so informative and humorous!Also the add-on trip to the Glacier ""skywalk"" is a must! A glass-floored walkway curving out over a 300 ft deep valley - wow!"
"Skip the bus tour, and book an afternoon glacier hike to experience this most amazing natural feature. You will walk from the sediments that the glacier has left behind, towards its toe, and then continue climbing up through the ice until you are well within the valley with over 150 meters of ice below you. You can see glacial rivers, cracks, faults, mountains of sediment, and uphill the very edge of the Columbia Icefield feeding this gorgeous valley glacier. Three other glaciers hang high up above you as you go, and the tour guide does an amazing job of sharing his knowledge, curiosity, and excitement. The Icefield Parkway, which you take to get to Athabasca, is breathtakingly beautiful, and if you have any interest in geology, you will be so psyched to see so many faults, folds, glacial horns and cirques, and most beautifully turquoise glacial lakes (Peyto is the best!). Seriously AMAZING."
"We first visited the Athabasca Glacier in 1977, then in 1979, 2010 and now. It is hard to believe how much it has retreated since 1977. We took the Glacier Experience tour in 1977 and 2015. It too has changed. In 1977, we drove up onto the side of the glacier and took a tracked vehicle down. Now we took a bus from the visitor centre and then took a much larger wheeled vehicle down onto the glacier.There is no fee to visit the glacier, although there is to enter the park and to go on the Glacier Experience."
The Athabasca Glacier is an amazing place to visit and well worth the long drive from Banff. A hiking trail to the toe of the glacier has markers indicating where the glacier USED to be. This really emphasized how quickly these glaciers are receding and that in a few more generations nothing more may exist.
"Took this trip organised by the ever efficient Brewster, who seem to run most of the touristy attractions in this part of the world. A buffet lunch at the Icefield Chalet was surprisingly good and well organised, given the crowds of people there. The Snocoach trip onto the glacier was good, with an informative guide and took about 20 minutes to reach the glacier. On getting onto the glacier, it was cold and windy, so wrap up well and wear decent shoes. Lots of opportunities to take photos of the glacier and the surrounding mountains. To feel how cold the chunks of ice were and how clear the melting water was something else. Worth visiting."
We parked at the first car park off the parkway to give ourselves a walk over the rocks to the foot of the glacier. It was well worth it for the views and small river crossing which give kids a sense of some adventure as they approach the glacier. Not too crowded either which was great but the sheer sense of loss when you see how far this force of nature has retreated is palpable. It makes you want to tackle global warming single handedly.
"We were part of a tour, but any way you get to see this, do it! It is spectacular from geological, photographic, and experiential perspectives. The ice explorer that takes you onto the glacier is fun, the glacier itself is awesome, and the setting is spectacular. The view from the lodge below is probably the closest to the view one would expect in Swiss Alps that you'll ever see in North America. Also- try a sip of the running glacier water!"
"We loved this. We took the bus tour and it was great. You only get about 20 minutes on the glacier with the bus tour but it is so cold you will be happy to get back on the bus. You cannot really get a scale for how massive the glacier really is until you are up close to it. This was a once in a lifetime experience for us and we were so glad we did it! You may want to try to go early in the morning to beat the crowds. Dress warm or in layers because the wind coming off of the glacier is frigid. Also, bring an empty water bottle because you can drink the glacier water!"
"The tours are run by Brewster, who seem to own the enormous building by the roadside from which the tours start. It took 20 minutes to get tickets because the system seems very slow - and that was before the Japanese coach parties arrived! While you wait there are two restaurants upstairs, a smart one which was entirely filled with Japanese tourists, and a 'caff' one where everyody else went. Then you find the right queue to catch the bus which takes you to a meeting point where you swap into the massive glacier buses. These grind their way up onto the glacier where you have about 20 minutes to enjoy the views and take photos before re-boarding the bus. There were five of these massive buses on the glacier which explains why the surface is a bit tatty - it's a quite a production line - but the trip is well worth it and the views are excellent. Just loses a star for the scrum in the booking office."
We took the Brewster tour up the Glacier... The vehicle ride was so much fun and then we got to walk around part of the Glacier... It was absolutely fantastic and I would definitely recommend it!!
We visited the Athabasca Glacier yesterday and found it to be very worthwhile. It's sad to see how much it's retreated over the past 100 years (2 km) but still amazing to go and walk out on the ice and fill a drink bottle with glacier water.
"We went on the longer of the 2 ice walks-about 5/6 hours in total and it was great! I was worried it was going to be very hard, however we were kitted out with all the equipment (and clothing) that we needed by the staff and after the first half an hour it was obvious that it was going to be an easy, albeit cold, walk up the glacier. Our tour guide was lovely, very informative and she made sure that everyone was okay, stopping to show us things and giving us a break at the same time. I would advise you to walk it instead of taking the big buses, as you get to see so much more of the glacier and go much further up it, and it's a better story to tell people!"
"This is a must do excursion when youre able to! Its very touristic, and beware of standing in line for a long time. A hint: pre purchase your tickets. This will shorten your waiting time big time. An adult ticket is $55. You will be brought by bus to a station where you get on the special wagons to drive on the gletcher. We got a very cool guide which explained a lot on the way there. You will have 20 minutes on the gletcher. Its much colder there so take an extra jacket with you. The experience is wonderful and i wouldnt have missed it for the world!There is free parking, but better get there late in the afternoon, when high peak is gone."
I was a bit anxious to walk up the glacier at first but having friends around and the staff members helping out swayed me. It was a tough walk 2300meters we had done.Our guide was so friendly. Patient and informative.My in laws the year before did the bus tour and when we told them we walked the glacier I think they were highly impressed.Its definitely something to tick off the bucket list.
Beautiful view of the glaciers. Taking the trip onto the glacier with Brewster is well worth the money. How long they can continue to do this is questionable. It is special to be able to walk and experience the trip up to the glacier on the special people movers.
"What a pleasure it was to drive on this road and arrive just at the bottom of this beautiful Glacier.
We didn't use one of the big trucks but even without that, the photos we could take were well worth the stop."
We took the Athabasca Glacier Icewalk out on the glacier and it was incredible. Our guide gave us plenty of information about the glacier and the Columbia Icefields. I highly recommend the 3hr walk. You even get to try a taste of glacier water which is pretty damn good.You can check out our full report on our trip here http://www.lifeinmichigan.com/canadian-rockies-2015-jasper-adventure/
"i had heard mixed reviews about coming here and doing the glacier experience, however i was glad i ended up going! was incredible to see the glacier up close, especially as I have never seen a glacier before."
"This was definitely the highlight of our time in Banff-Jasper. I would strongly encourage anyone to take the Glacier Adventure and actually walk on the Athabasca Glacier. It is an incredible experience and it enables you to see up close the difference in glacial ice versus winter ice storms. We HIGHLY RECOMMEND going early in the morning - before 10:30 am - before they get busy--because it is very busy. This experience was so incredible that if we are in the area again, we will go back out on the glacier. Any child above 2nd-3rd grade should also be awarded the opportunity to see and walk on this glacier."
"Driving from Bannf to Jasper ,arrived at Glacier at 2.30 . Buses onto glacier booked out till 4.30 . The Icewalk Tour only takes about 10 so book well in advance . I,m in school holidays so crowds are huge. Did the self walk onto the Glacier You don't actually go on the glacier but it's front edge and there are very descriptive signe telling you that ther is a river and lake under the front and if you do fall down a crevice you'll be dead of hypothermia before they get you out. The Glacier bus takes you above that area . I didn't go on it so I can't really comment on it . But I did see the Skywalk . A platform over a cliff giving expansive views which can be replicated many times over from many other free viewing points . The Glacier was well done the list after Lake Moraine and lake Louise and Johnston Canyon but has the commercial push . Maybe it would be better with less crowd and earlier in the season when the snow was whiter"
"The Disney version of glacier exploration. You take a three-minute bus ride to the snowcoach lot, then take the snowcoach another 10 minutes to the glacier, and get 10 minutes to walk around the parking area. The glacier is a fraction of its original size (no doubt attractions like this further contribute to its retreat), but the Brewster tour ignores that. One guide actually said 'You can tell your friends you got your shoes washed in a glacier!' conveniently ignoring that we were all contributing to a layer of dirt, mud and dust that's accelerating the decline of the glacier. I would recommend doing the tour, but educating yourself before and after about the role glaciers have played in the development of life and geology in the region, and on the planet, because you won't get it from the guides."
"This experience might have been more exciting had I not been on a bigger glacier in New Zealand. You were only allowed on a small part of the glacier for the twenty minutes and it was very crowded, far too touristy and expensive for my liking. The best bit for me was the journey to the glacier in the ice explorer!"
"We took a three hour glacier walk in Jasper. It was AMAZING and well worth the money. The staff provided us with jackets, gloves, and hats and it was very informative. I would not recommend walking on a glacier for anyone with back,ankle or knee problems. Each guide was friendlier than the next."
"It is kind of sad how we are ruining our planet and this glacier is reminder how bad things are. Worth the visit, it is still huge. but lost 60% of its volume in 130 years,.."
We stopped and had a look at the Athabasca Glacier in the Columbia Icefields. We decided to do our own thing. We drove down to the parking area and walked up to the glacier. It is quite spectacular that you can get right up to it. It was also very interesting to see how far the glacier had receded in recent times. It is cool that they have put in posts indicating the glaciers location in various years.
"This Glacier was huge, sad to see it get smaller every decade. Facinating experience. Good guides who can tell stories ."
This is quite the site to visit! Even though the glacier is slowly melting and disappearing it is still a spectacular site to see. We would have loved to take the bus up to the glacier fields but were totally unprepared to do this as it was colder than we thought. Take some warm cloths and good boots if you plan this. It is something that we will prepare better for the next time we go!
"The line up was long and chaotic but once you got the tickets and on the shuttle bus, sit back, relax and enjoy the ride up to the glacier.The shuttle bus took us to the depot where we boarded the Ice Explorer. It made its steep and slow accent up the glacier where you can see the crevasses and water along the way. The glacier looks dirty on the top but you can see brilliant blue underneath it. We were dropped off and have 22 minutes on the ice. It was magnificent, beautiful and you should try the ice water from the melting glacier. The ride was as interesting as the destination. And depending on your driver, you will hear interesting stories about the glaciers.Well worth the time and effort to go up the ice field."
"Athabasca Glacier on the Columbia Icefield is a must see attraction and a ride on the monstrous Ice Explorer is a must do. We visited the glacier and the icefields in July, last and were lucky to a have clear sunny day. The ride on the Ice Explorer is worth it and the commentary by the driver, interesting and informative. As you go up the vegetation changes from Sub - Alpine to Tundra. Once at the glacier, one needs to watch out for the crevices. The treacle of pure ice water from the glacier is like elixir. It's crowded in peak season and prior booking is adviced."
"We got our tickets online and changed them to another day, mass confusion when we got on the first bus. We had 5 kids with us, 2 had to sit on our knees Second bus that goes onto the glacier was great, driver knowledgable, but kids on knees again. We only had TEN minutes on the glacier, TEN minutes after all that bussing and waiting. So back on bus, and then transferred to second bus, not enough seats, other tourists being rude to us, no help from the staff, the driver simply said there was room but did not help and my husband was not to stand, finally found a seat that was being ""hidden"" by another rider! I have been twice before this and it was great, Brewsters trying to pack us in like sardines with short tours, will never go back."
"You get to go out on the glacier ice in a specially designed ice explorer-it gets passengers there safely and also takes care of the glacier. Once there you can get really close for pictures of two glaciers and find out all about the last ice age and how global warming is accelerating the rate at which the glaciers are now receding. Given the importance of the glacial water to all the Canadian waterways, it is a compelling story. Crowds of visitors are out there so you need to be there early (starting at 9am, finishing at 6pm) to make sure you get out there on your chosen visiting day"
"Perhaps the best way to study and enjoy this glacier is to park across the street from the Icefields center, and hike along the path to the glacier. There are many informative signs along the way, and other tourists who prefer this no-cost way to marvel at this natural phenomenon."
"Come as early possible. I have to wait 3 hours since I came here at 13.00 in July. First you will line up to buy the ticket. Then wait for bus ride to the terminal (here I wait 3 hours for the bus) , from there you will ride a big giant 6 wheel down into the glacier.At the glacier enjoy 15 minutes walking and taking picture.Use of hiking shoes help you grip and walking around, because ice is slippery"
"Visited the glacier as part of a day tour with Discover Banff Tours, and it was a brilliant experience. Buses organised by the Columbia Icefield Centre's staff take you to an area near the glacier, where you are transferred to the special buses, which then take you onto the glacier itself. The buses tyres are huge!! (About 5 feet tall - I know as I stood next to one and that's my height!). The journey takes about 10 minutes, and once there you have about 15 minutes on the ice. It isn't a long time as some people have commented, but as there are a lot of tourists, the whole thing has to be well organised and stick to a rigid schedule. And how often does the ""average"" tourist get to stand on a glacier where the ice is as deep as the Eiffel Tower is tall!! So just soak up the atmosphere and enjoy whatever time you have there!You area you can walk on is defined by a slightly scooped out perimeter, as beyond this is too dangerous. The colours on this perimeter were beautiful shades of blue, and you can drink the sparkling water that has melted - collect some in your bottle! We visited mid June and it wasn't as cold as we expected but to be on the safe side, it is still advisable to dress warmly (also with appropriate footwear - we saw people in sandals?!!).There are toilets, gift shop and cafeteria in the centre, although we heard food prices were a little high and there could be queues depending when you visit, so it may be an idea to bring your own. It was a wonderful experience, something we may never get to do again, and so would thoroughly recommend it!!"
"This is a fun activity. Don't miss it. The Snowcoach (which is worth $1.3 million - and each of its six tires costs $5000/each) takes groups of tourists up rugged terrain to the glacier, where you can spend time exploring the glacier and sampling its fresh water. Bring something along to collect the water. In case you forget they sell containers in the gift shop. A unique experience."
We arrived and the place seemed a bit chaotic. We weren't impressed with the price so hiked the 15 minutes upto the ice. It was freezing rain by the time we got there so didn't venture on to the ice. Was good to see the glacier and how it had shrunk over the years.
Dress warmly for you travel up to the glacier and walk out on it for 20 minutes or so. It was exciting to experience this and slippery shoes help navigate the snow. The vehicle that took us from the hotel was used in Antarctica. Amazing trip. You can make these reservations at the hotel when you stay overnight.
"A special bus takes you on the glacier where you are allowed to walk around for 20 minutes. You will see the the glacier melting. Wear warm clothes and sturdy shoes. If you have hiking poles, use them as the ice is slippery as it is melting."
"We are from Switzerland and know some glaciers from our home country. The Athabasca Glacier is to admit an interesting one who shows also clearly human impact on the Environment.What one should absolutely refrain is to take one of these busses in order to drive onto the glacier. This is from environmentally point of view absolute nonsense and supports the melt of the glacier !If you are interested to see and come as close as possible put your car/ RV to one of the parking areas and hike 15 min upwards. Than, you can see all the details and have also spectacular view to the glacier.If you are interested to see more of the glacier drive 5 miles south, turn left to the parking place and hike 5 miles upwards to the Mt Wilcox, opposite of Athabasca Glacier. This is much more environment friendly and you see the complete glacier."
Brewster offer a amazing ride and information on this glacier. Driver was very knowledgeable and we had a great time.
"if you want to waste a half a day to see the Athabasca Glacier and get frustrated while do so, go for it! We repurchased tickets online only to get on a line to get your ticket stamped for the time of your tour. We arrived at 2 pm only to find out that our tour began at 3:15!!! We had to go and get lunch to waste time in a horrible cafeteria with horrible food. What a tourist trap!!!! Waste time in a cafeteria or gift shop with rip-off prices. We had to be on the next line 10 minutes before the 3:15 tour and waited and got pushed back till the 3:00 tour stragglers came to the line. The employees controlling the lines were extremely rude and many of the tourists were as well. We finally got onto the transfer bus to the area where we had to get off and go onto the specially designed buses that took you onto the glacier. Our guide was very informative and was patient while many rude passengers talked over him. Once we got to the glacier and stepped off, it was very slushy and cold. I ran out and ran back onto the bus for warmth. We met a nice couple that night only to find out that their daughter and a toddler both fell into a hole in the glacier and were up to their waist in frigid water. thank goodness they were pulled out by people nearby. This can and has happened!! If you decide to go, wear warm clothing including hats and gloves as well as good shoes. Good luck."
"Nice warm sunny day that cooled off quickly as we approached. I felt a few raindrops as we hiked up from the parking lot. The glacier creates a microclimate. Have a look at the date plaques as you drive up to, or away from, the parking area. There are a few educational boards near the parking lot - have a look at those too. Bring a jacket - it gets chilly."
"Amazing, amazing, amazing. Don't take the bus to the glacier, do the ICE WALKS! The glacier toe is dirty, nothing special, but that is nature!! As you walk up the glacier, things start to be beautiful, fresh water, fresh air, beautiful view. You will be walking on something that has 3 milion years, that's a hell of experience."
"The drivers were very well versed in their knowledge of the glaciers, and the surrounding area. It was great learning about the glacier, and getting a chance to drink straight out of the stream."
Fun trip. have been there before several years back. This trip I noticed a lot of ice melting so it made it hard to walk over.
Did the tour up onto the Glacier. was a nice day and educational learning about the glacier on the bus trip..
"Second visit for us adults and much busier than last time, kind of spoiled it a little but kids loved it (especially dad ending up hip deep in a hole on glacier having not paid attention to the cone on top of it!). Great guides and bus drivers, ice has visibly receded on 12 years but still the most awesome views from the glacier. Take an empty bottle to fill up with slightly smokey tasting glacial water."
"We just thought...ok, that is so close to the visitor´s center...let´s have quick look at the glacier. It was a 3 minutes drive only and then we started walking towards the glacier...or what is left of it. We passed several signs telling us how quickly the glacier has melted: back in 1937 it was still really close to the area of the visitor center. That visit made us think!When we will come back in 30 years the glacier might be gone! Go and see it as long as it is still existing!"
"We did the guided glacier ice walks (NOT the bus that drives on to the glacier!), where you meet in the parking lot at the tongue of the glacier. The guides provide crampons (they really are just a nice pair of Yak Trax) and have boots to borrow as well as hats and gloves (we were there on July 4th, the hat and gloves were needed and I was glad I brought my puff jacket w/ me). The guide gives you some education about glaciers and the general Canadian Rockies area (ours was a rock climber, so we learned a little bit about that too) - you hike up to and then on to the glacier - going about 3 miles total round trip. While on the ice you can see some of the crevasses, dangers and fill your water bottle w/ glacier water (which you do not have to purify!) - bring your camera, there is opportunity for some fun photos - our 16 and 19 year old both enjoyed this outing as well (about 3 hours long). It is a great way to break up the drive between Lake Louise and Jasper."
The glacier needs to be seen as they are rare and likely to get harder to find as time goes by. It's an easy stop right off the main highway. Believe there is a visitors center across the roadway.
A wonderful trip out on to the glacier. Very experienced and knowledgeable driver and helpful staff in the base centre.
must every one have to this place grate experience there and one more thing is monestar truck experince is very nice
"Yes, you just walking on ice and, depending on where you live, you may be able to do that at home every winter; but, it is an actual glacier -- four miles long, 800 feet thick. You can walk on it, touch it, drink the melted ice. Yes, it's just water; but, it's a glacier. You definitely will have a greater appreciation for the power that created many of the valleys that you've seen on the drive through the park. You'll spend about an two hours on the glacier and at the visitor center. Don't pass it by. It's just one of those things that shouldn't be missed."
"We were really unimpressed with this glacier but we have seen several others, both in Alaska and Iceland. It was rather muddled with dirt. Was excited to sign up for the snow cat tour onto the glacier until I was able to view the location the snow cat takes you with my own eye. Seems like it was a waste of money to only go a small ways further than you can hike. The hike up to the glacier was a decent little hike. The entire way to the glacier was a disappointment. Seems like they don't advertise or put much money into it so they could capitalize on the very expensive snow cat ride. Avoid the café at all costs. The food was expensive and nasty."
"Awesome - opportunity to walk on a glacier in beautiful sunny conditions. Expensive C$250 for family of 4 to do the Snow Coach onto the glacier and the separate canitlevered Glacier Skywalk but wow, what a great experience. We loved it."
"Was great to get back after a few decades...sad to see them melt away :(Excellent guiding Mr. Rex!Did last trip of the day (18:00) so small group up on the ice but felt way to rushed.kids stepped into an ice-water-hole so had to jump back into the bus to stay warm...oh ya, and dress warm! (and watch your step)Well worth the cost though..."
"Most people take the Sno-coach up -- an easy, comfortable, ride to the top, which allows 30 minutes to wander. We chose to park at the bottom of the glacier and use our legs instead. It is not a particularly difficult hike. It's a breathtaking and humbling experience.Note that there is a drastic temperature change -- dress accordingly."
"We took a Sno-coach tour and walked on the glacier. The bus ride in a ""monster ice bus"" with huge wheels was thrilling. The driver/guide was informative and entertaining. Educational, fun tour for the whole family, with breathtaking views of the mountains and the glacier."
"We chose not to take the ice explorer shuttle bus but to take a personal guide onto the glacier. The tours are conducted by a company called Ice Walk and it is a good idea to book ahead although we emailed through our intention to take the afternoon tour and paid cash on arrival. The tour we chose started at 1:00 and we were provide with all the gear necessary for the 2 1/2 hour adventure ahead, included good hiking boots, warm jackets and pants if need along with gloves and crampons. After finishing the preliminaries we met our guide Emily who took us to the foot of the glacier explaining along the way the history no features of the debris field. Once on the glacier Emily continued to show us various points of interest as we walked the approximately 2 kilometres up the glacier. Along the way we stopped to fill our water bottles with fresh glacial run off. Overall we spent about 2 hours on the glacier looking at all it's different aspects. Emily proved to be wealth of knowledge always willing to answer any question and committed to ensuring we had an enjoyable experience. Leave plenty of time for this tour as we started at 1:00 and didn't fi ish till after 4:00 but well worth the cost $75 pp. we did feel sorry for the people be shuttled back and forth by bus as we felt they were missing out the experience of climbing a glacier. A final word of warning it is not an easy walk."
"Comfortable vehicles take you out to the glacier and you can walk around for about 30 minutes. It is amazing....running water and waterfalls on the glacier itself? And the colors...the blue is so vivid. Not as cold as we expected...a hoodie would have been fine, but do bring waterproof shoes....lots of slush to sink into up to ankles!"
"Walking on Athabasca Glacier was surreal, it felt totally amazing. Surrounded by white & blue, rivers of melted ice & snow, sun shining overhead but feeling really really cold on the ice. Some visitors turned up in shorts and sandals, would have very wet feet! It was very windy the day we visited but that couldn't detract from the whole experience. This is a must do if you ever have the opportunity."
We journeyed to the Athabasca Glacier with a Japanese guide named Masami [Sami to his mates]. He would have to be one of the most amusing and informative guides ever. The trip there and back was fun with Sami but the time spent on Athabasca Glacier was absolutely stunning getting up close and personal with the glacier and its beautiful surrounds.
"We were priviledged to come here as part of our tour to Canada. A must see attraction before the glacier receeds. Fabulous and halarious drivers allow you for a walk onto the glacier. Bluebird skies all around and even built a glacier man accessorised with scarf, hat and sunglasses! The walkway is also a must, but not for the height squeemished."
"Do visit the Athabasca Glacier. It's a once in a lifetime to actually walk on a glacier. The trip is on a fantastic glacier mobile, don't know what else to call it, and exciting. We were told that the glacier water makes you five year's younger."
The mountains all around are beautiful but the Athabasca glacier looks like a giant frozen waterfall as you approach. There is a coach to take you to the vehicles which drive onto the ice. The road down to the ice is very steep and gives everyone a feeling of excitement which strengthens once you drive over the glacier itself. The drivers are really good. Walking calls for care but it isn't difficult even if you are not so fit. It is an incredible experience.
"We had driven for hours from Kelowna to get to the glacier, I had researched it online and my family was excited to go see it. We got to the building at 4:20, walked right up to the clerk and bought our tickets, boarded the shuttle bus by 4:30. The driver guide was excellent, the buggy guide was excellent, we happened to be the third last shuttle of the day, so our bus was the only one on the glacier and that made it very nice. Where it started to go downhill was when we got back to the building.The gift shop had closed while we were on the glacier, no one had mentioned it to us or we would have gone on a later shuttle and visited the shop first. There were quite a few people on our bus that had no idea it would be closed, and there were quite a few families expressing disappointment that their kids wouldn't get anything from the gift shop, I personally think that it's poor planning to not have the gift shop open until the last shuttle returns. Apparently the hours were posted on the door as we came in, but because the doors were propped open, we didn't see the hour posts. And the girl that sold us the tickets didn't even give us a courtesy warning that it may be closed. Three entire busses missed that opportunity. That's bad business.Then, we went upstairs and had something to eat in the cafeteria (the restaurant wasn't open until 6 and we still had to drive for 5 hours). We had three cheeseburgers, two fries and a side salad, four waters, to the tune of $84.00!!! No, you're not reading that wrong. $84.00 for crappy cafeteria food. If I had realized that Jasper was so close, I would have skipped it completely. We left the establishment saying how we had loved the glacier so much, but between the gift shop being closed (and us not being told of that), and the horrible and grossly overpriced cafeteria food, we definitely will plan it differently next time (if we ever go back). This organization could be so much more successful if they put a little more thought into their customers happiness."
This is a well oiled tourist machine. Visitors to Athabasca Glacier will be very impressed with its beauty. Staff driving you out to and onto the glacier are very informative and do everything they can to ensure you have the best glacier experience. Like any popular attraction there a lot of visitors so you need to allow sufficient time. I highly recommend this glacier walk to all visitors to the area.
This was my first glacier experience long ago and since then I tend to look for glaciers all over. The ride on the bus to the glacier is an experience that I keep repeating every time I am in the west and the view of the glacier with its humungous steps is breathtaking that you feel you can never get enough of it.
"We visited the Glacier yesterday. Beautiful and sunny day.We walked almost two miles to the glacier. Beautiful view.It began to snow and suddenly it was difficult to see more than 20 feet.Luckily we just followed the road. Cold, snow and wind.Interesting experience.There are buses to help you go to a place near the glacier, but they are expensive."
"amazing views with great pictures its a touch expensive to get the bus up to the glacier but its worth it. the ice and amazing temperature drops as breath taking and the taste of the fresh water is unique. The views from the glacier are great up to its source and the side glaciers, back to the road and the many car parks not so much - though I guess the bonus is there is plenty of parking.its worth a visit and is coming close to some of the Icelandic ice fields. worth the trip"
"We traveled up the Icefield Parkway with this as our lunch destination in mind.We were in a Class C RV, and there was plenty of extra RV parking available just a little further to the north of the regular car lot.While it was slightly expensive as a family of four (2 adults 2 boys 11 and 13), and we had to wait for our group timeslot (about a 45 minute wait), there was a cafeteria with some food and drinks to help pass the wait.Driving up in a bus from the tour building to the base of the glacier, you then transfer into a specialized vehicle that can take you up and down the steepest slopes you might ever travel on. Then out onto the glacier itself where you can disembark and walk around for about 15 minutes it seemed. While that seems short, it was still worth it.You are at a special place, where three oceans are connected from one source of water. There is only one other spot in the world where that happens so truly a visit not to be missed."
"we visited this glacier whilst on holiday , we were staying in Banff, I proposed to my long term partner Brenda standing on top of this huge miles long glacier , she said yes , and the massive glacier bus load of visitors all shouted and wished us the best, it is a great experience, also going on the Ice Explorer juggernaut of a bus is brilliant.Our Rockies trip was full of wonderful memories and this was one of them, don't miss it !"
"Touring the Canadian Rockies, I learnt we could visit a Glacier. Never ever done that before. What an exciting prospect.The Athabasca Glacier in Jasper National Park is part of the Columbia Icefield, on the Icefield Parkway between Banff and Jasper. It's said to be 3.7 miles long, covers 2.3sq miles and 300 ft thick.It's the most visited glacier in North America. Has an information centre and food, which are geared to tourist traffic.Other reviews contain very useful information, but for me personally this was such a unique experience, that I never thought I would ever do. I really did enjoy the whole time going to the Icefield on the snow coaches and just being on the Glacier. If you get the opportunity, do not hesitate. GO FOR THE EXPERIENCE."
"We stopped at the information centre on the Iceland Parkway and bought tickets on the bus to the glacier ""terminal"". There you mount a huge ice bus to run out onto the glacier. At the glacier, the bus disgorges the passengers and you have about 30+ minutes to walk around the ice and snow of the glacier. (Be careful, there are fissures in the ice but usually well designated). The guide/drivers of both the transfer bus and the ice bus are very informative and good fun. After the time on the ice, there is a return by the same method as going.It is a shame that global warming is having such an effect on not only this glacier but all over the world. See it while you can.The information centre has the ever present souvenir shop as well as a well priced cafeteria to get lunch. A pricey excursion but worth the trip."
"Having already visited Alaska, including South Sawyer Glacier, Hubbard Glacier, Holgate Glacier etc this glacier was a real disappointment. It has retreated so far in recent years it's visibility from the highway is limited. If this is the only glacier you'll have a chance to see you probably need to do the ice explorer trip out onto the glacier to get a decent look at it. We didn't want to do that and my husband was so underwhelmed he didn't even bother getting out of the car to look at it."
"My husband and I traveled to the Icefields Parkway (Canadian Rockies) on a cross country trip and stopped at this glacier on the Columbia Icefields area. On one side of the highway is an information center, service for food and gas and the location to take a bus to the glacier. The bus will cross the road go up a hill so you can see the glacier from above and down onto the glacier itself. You will be able to get a good look at the glacier up close and get information on the bus as you ride. Or if you have a choice to park on the glacier side and walk up to the glacier. Along this walk you will see signs and history of the glacier and its decline. Markers show how much it has receded with dates. It also has information on how people have been injured or killed not following restrictions on getting on the ice. Don't worry there is a rope that shows where to stop. It is a beautiful glacier and an eye opening experience to see one before there are none left. The walk is not steep but you need to remember the altitude and dress correctly, rest if you need and take water. I'm from the east coast where were are about 15' above sea level and that is why I say this. Not really necessary if you are use to climbing etc. There is a pond with glacier water in it from the glacier near the parking lot so be sure to take an empty water bottle and collect some water if you wish. We were there around Sept. 8th and there was snow in the area but the roads were fine. I would highly recommend a camera and a zoom len to see the buses as even though you can see the ""ant"" size from the walking area you can get great shots of buses and people on the glacier. A must see on your bucket list. Go before they go away. Enjoy and see the beauty and wonder of nature. P.S. The visitors center across the street is one of the only places to get gas for a while so go on the Icefields Parkway with a full tank. Walking is free buses have a charge."
After a drive from Banff which included driving the last 10kms in snowfall the process of getting to the glacier was smooth. The guide was very good and we had plenty of time on the glacier to look around and experience it. This was our second trip and we would come back again. It is a unique experience.
I'm glad I did this and it's worth doing but it is a tourist trap so be prepared. To think you're standing on a glacier is pretty cool. In hindsight I wish I had booked one of the guided hikes to get away from the crowds...
"Had never been on a glacier before, nor had we been on a sno-coach - both of which we got to do from the visitor centre. You're taken by coach towards the glacier then transferred to the big sno-coahes to go down onto it. Its so cool to standard on the glacier and try to picture it being a very small part of a glacier that stretches out to an area the size of Vancouver. The 'Glacier Experience' is quite expensive but its not something to likely to do more than once so just suck it up. The jury is still out on whether the additional fee for the Skywalk is worth it, but glad we did it anyway."
"We stopped here on our way from Banff to Jasper, which allowed us to spend about the right amount of time here and still have the evening in Jasper. The visitor centre is large and busy, but the buses that take you out to the glacier are reasonably well-organised. Departures are frequent, and it takes about five minutes to reach the car park where you change to the larger vehicles taking you on to the glacier. The area you can walk on is fairly small, so the half an hour you spend there is long enough to get some pictures and admire the view. We bought the tickets that got us on to the skywalk also. That part was time-consuming and not all that great. The views were lovely, but if you've been on any kind of similar structure you could skip it and not miss much. The restaurant in the visitor centre is hideously over-priced, chaotic and not all that pleasant. If you can avoid that, I'd recommend doing so."
This is an interesting stop if you are travelling from Jasper to Lake Louise / Banff. The glacier buggies are comfortable and the guides are knowledgeable although our guide only ever pointed out things on the left side of the vehicle. Once at the glacier the temperatures are much lower than at the visitor's center so be sure to dress very warmly. There are opportunities for wonderful photo ops as you get about 20 min on the glacier itself. We enjoyed this activity but htough $75 per adult a bit steep. (there is a discount if you purchase this in conjunction with the Glacier Skywalk)
Visited Athabasca Glacier with friends on our way from Banff to Jasper. One in a lifetime opportunity to ride in glacier vehicle. Breath taking views all around. We booked our tickets in advance so we skip ques. This place is very busy in season but well worth to visit. Our tour guide/driver had a great knowledge about the glacier. There is plenty of time to take a photo. A must visit place when passing by.Book tickets online in advance to skip the ques.
"The unique IceBus tours onto the Glacier but get there early, even 'off season' it gets incredibly busy. Slowly Brewsters seem to be over-selling and over-using this uniquely accessible glacial location"
Travelling down the parkway and stopping off to visit the glacier in the middle of a spectacular mountain range - what's not to love. Stepping onto the glacier was monumental and I will never forget its energy and force - truly magnificent.
"If you get time on your trip between Jasper and Banff stop off at this amazing attraction, just knowing that you have walked on a glacier takes some believing"
"Whilst it is highly commercialized, it's possibly the only chance you will ever get to walk on a glacier ... so why come this far just for some photos?.It's not cheap, but it's a unique experience to travel in the huge over snow/ice vehicles, and then to get out and walk around on the glacier.We also found the commentary by the driver of our heavy duty ""bus""but to be quite interesting."
"Walking on a glacier seemed like something that I would find impossible before now. I honestly didn't think it was possible for the public to do this. However this is a magnificent adventure and experience. You go on the massive wheeled vehicles that drive you onto the glacier. Once you are on the glacier the guy gives you a tour and explains some key facts, as well as giving you many jokes. On the glacier he opens the doors and you get to walk about on the blue ice. You are kind of looking down and thinking is this ice going to collapse on me. However apparently blue ice is very compacted. Around the glacier are streams where the ice is melting and flowing around the glaciers. It's an amazing view and it's a great feeling walking on the ice, even though you are being very careful not to slip and wondering whether you are going to collapse through the ice. It's a must do experience."
What else can you say ... A huge lump of quite dirty ice on the side of a mountain. Sort of covers it
Hundreds of feet thick of compacted snow over a millennium of years.It's just so awe inspiring to see the beginning of some Canada's most impressive rivers.
"We felt this was a splendid place to visit, it was exhilarating getting their on the purpose built bus. Marvellous to see the glacier, loved it."
"I visited the Athabasca Glacier in 1998......there was fewer buses and lots of wildlife....where has all the wildlife gone? It seems that now there are just hoards and hoards of tourists bused up and out like a factory that all the wildlife has gone.....no mountain goats, bighorn sheep etc. It was actually really depressing to see the effect of tourism. The glacier area where you are bused to is also much, much smaller than it was in 1998........all really rather depressing I'm afraid. I'd rather see the glacier as it is from afar and leave it alone, stop walking on it, stop the big bus tires and millions of walking boots all over the ice."
"My girlfriend who lived in Penhold when she was a child, said this was something I had to do so honestly prior to that had no knowledge of this.This is not a cheap excursion, but given it's supply it is worth while, and there is a lot of lead-up to the actual event. The whole thing takes about an hour or so, but you only get an actual 15 or 20 minutes on the glacier itself. Not only do you get to walk on the glacier, but you also get the experience of taking a ride on these monstrous vehicle. It is interesting looking across on it, and then actually getting to stand on it, as it looks so different when you are on it. They take you to a special location, where you can get a close up look at the surroundings, and if you bring a bottle you can collect some of the running glacier water. The guides do a good job of giving you lots of information on the trip over, and answer all of your questions. I didn't find that there was a lot of information though other then what they tell you.The busses were all in good shape, and it feels a lot like a converted greyhound bus. Seats are comfortable, and there are great big large windows to see out of on the trip to the glacier itself. There are obviously no washrooms on the glacier, so make sure you go prior to getting on the bus because you won't be able to go for another hour.Service was good, and the guides were very knowledgeable. We had purchased our tickets in advance, so there was no waiting in line. If you can get your tickets in advance in town, would highly recommend it as the lines were quite long.The overall experience was fun. I wouldn't have paid to do it separately but as part of a package the price was decent. It is an excellent opportunity to see something unique up close that many individuals will never come across. I'm glad that my girlfriend encouraged me to do this. Make sure to take a bottle with you as well so that you can take home some glacier water with you."
"thought this would be an expensive tourist con but it was worth every dollar. Ice explorer but takes you onto the glacier and although 20mins seems a short time, the outside temperature made us quite happy to return. skywalk was also worth the visit. you need good weather to get the views. Bought the 4 deal package that included the boat ride at banff, the banff gondola and the glacier visit and sky walk. 109 dollars as a package."
"While travelling with teenagers we decided to take a detour and visit the Glacier. We were transported out by bus to the site, it was a spectacular site, the kids really enjoyed it. It is a shame that with global warming the Glacier is melting away, glad we stopped when we did to see it. A must see before it's gone!"
Transported out to the glacier on bus. Plenty of ice but you can see how fast it is receding and the ice was a dirty grey. A sunny day with a big crowd. Come wrapped up as the glacier has its own cold climate.
"It's hard to describe the immensity of a moving sheet of ice like this. People look so tiny against the ice. At the same time, it's sobering to see the markers showing where this glacier was in 1994. Every day scientists come out to measure the amount of water coming off the glacier, and when I was there it was a torrent. I highly recommend this site. it's about 5 minutes off of the Icefields Parkway."
"If you want more exercise in the course of route, take the path of rocks. Once depiction near the Glacier, you can admire the disaster caused by the global warming in all its magnificence. Panels here and in by the roadside allow to see where was situated the glacier in various dates during the last century."
"Start off at the welcome center and be transported to the base of the glacier by bus. Then transfer to a specialized vehicle to take you to the Glacier. Dress warm! You are standing on a 650 foot deep glacier. Try the water, it's good and cold."
"Breathtaking views, and the thrill of being on a glacier and walking on it. we took the bus front he ice center and they take you to the glacier and give you 20 minutes to explore. It happened to be glorious day with the sun shining brightly and the glacier was picturesque. What I will recommend that you do is book the glacier walk. I really wish we had done it. 20 mins was far too less to take all the geological features of the glacier. But make sure the weather is good before you book it :)"
We were there 21 August 2014. Certainly worth taking the Adventurer right onto the Icefield. Not only do you get an informative narration from the driver but being on the ice gives you an awesome experience.
"We have been to the Columbia Icefields many times, first in the early 1980s when the ice was much closer to the road. The ice field has retreated a long way and is in danger of disappearing some day, so I urge you all to go before it melts. We took the bus ride this time. It was a wonderful adventure. We bought our tickets online in a package with the Skywalk and saved $10 per adult person. Definitely worth it. When you arrive at the Discovery Centre, go to the counter beside the lineups and get a bus time, then join the line-up for the bus. The bus is very frequent. It takes passengers 5 mins up the glacier where we switched to the big special buses that have those giant wheels that took us to the glacier. On the way, the bus driver gave us an excellent talk on terminal moraines, pushes, cones, and other terms. We got to walk on the ice for a while. The area is very cold, please wear proper footwear and clothing. I was happy I decided to switch from my sneakers to my hiking boots because it gave me a good grip on the ice. Also I wore my fleece top and another layer, a warm hat and gloves. Very windy and chilly on the ice. Shocked so many visitors came in shorts and some even in flip flops. We got to drink some melted glacier water. There is a very steep hill to climb down and back up in the bus, very exciting."
"I LOVED this place. It's directly across from Icefields Centre--which I would avoid at all costs. Do not pay the overblown price to tour the Glacier with a tour group--at least not if you don't mind walking uphill a bit. I imagine you don't mind walking uphill a bit if you are visiting the Canadian Rockies.We parked on the road and walked to the glacier--there is not ample parking at the glacier for the high tourist season. The line to the porta potties was very long, so handle that part of it before you get there if you're there in season. The hike up to the glacier is a constant ascent. If you're not too physically fit, a few breaks will be sufficient. People of all ages, from very young to fairly old were viewing the glacier. Not everyone ventured out to walk on it. There are signs telling you not to do this, and there are ineffective barriers meant to imply that you shouldn't--but on the other hand, if you pay, you're allowed to walk on the glacier. Most people on the glacier did not pay and did not go with an ""experienced mountaineer.""Once you reach the actual glacier, it's an odd sensation. It is ice, yet it is not slippery. There are not deep crevasses where the water glides downhill. You are warned that they can form at any time, and that water is coursing under the ice under your feet--yet there are tour buses that drive out on to the glacier. I can't help but feel we are led to believe it is only safe if you pay.We hiked a fairly good distance up the glacier, but not as far as the tour vehicles on the glacier. Coming down obviously was more an issue, mainly because you expect to be sliding since it's ice, but you are not. That being said, do NOT wear those cutsy flat-bottomed ballet-like slippers that I'd seen many women wearing. Do NOT wear sneakers because I did notice a few people sliding in them. We wore our hiking boots and we did not slip once. Tour groups use crampons, but really they aren't necessary, but I imagine would give you way more confidence.So grab your camera and take some interesting pictures. It was a warm'ish day when I was there, so I had on my hiking shorts, but the glacier is cold, so I donned my down jacket. My photo looks ridiculous, with my bare legs and winter coat. Definitely bring your coat and if you sunburn on the top of your head, wear a hat."
"Recently enjoyed a great half day out on this monstrous sheet of ice, over 300m deep and larger in area than the greater Vancouver city area! What a great feeling standing on such a massive natural ice formation but such a pity that climate change is causing it to recede so fast now. Go see it while you still can! The huge ATV that takes you out onto the glacier is a must do experience :)"
What an incredible and amazing attraction. never thought that we would ever go walking on this huge 1000 foot thick glacier.We went up to the glacier firstly by bus and then a unimog. If your ever in this area it is a must place to visit.
"As part of our Uncommon Journeys Train Adventure across Canada, we disembarked the train after four days in Jasper, Alberta, Canada for marvelous ride through the Colombia Icefield. Our destination was the Athabasca Glacier in the midst of the Columbia Icefield.  What a marvelous ride it was..The Athabasca Glacier is one of the six principal ‘toes’ of the Columbia Icefield, located in the Canadian Rockies. The glacier currently recedes at a rate of about 5 metres (16 ft) per year and has receded more than 1.5 km (0.93 mi) in the past 125 years and lost over half of its volume. The glacier moves down from the Icefield at a rate of several centimeters per day, leaving behind mounds of crushed rock… The leading edge of the glacier is within easy walking distance; however, travel onto the glacier is not recommended unless properly equipped. Hidden crevasses have led to the deaths of unprepared tourists.  We went to the Icefield Interpretive Centre, and purchased tickets to take the Terra Bus out onto the Glacier. These are fantastic vehicles and the only ones in existence are here on the Icefield and in the Antarctica. The Athabasca Glacier is surveyed each day in order to ensure that it is safe for our excursion onto its surface. No matter the age of the individual, once upon the Glacier, we all become curious youngsters. We had a grand time visiting the Glacier and will have those marvelous memories for all time…This is a MUST do if you are in the area. Simply one of the most memorable trips of a lifetime."
Great view of this large ghlacier from the Icefields Center. but there was very little information on the glacier or the Columbia Icefields behind it at the.Center
"This was the best attraction of our visit to the Rockies. The glacier is close to the main road. I would recommend visiting it on foot if you are able to do so. You wear spiked covers on your shoes, and it is safe to walk on. It is an amazing experience. The walking tour lasts about 100 minutes. You can do it by bus, but you see far less of the glacier.One negative - there was only one loo to serve the whole site, and this was most inadequate."
"We took the bus trip up there and it was probably one of the high points for my children (ages 2 and 7). They loved the big bus and the fact they were on a glacier. We played in the snow and took some pictures. The whole thing was completed in under 2 hours. You get 20 mins on the glacier and you have a pretty small area to stand in but without some serious effort, this is one of the only ways, I'll be standing on a glacier with my 2 year old son and 91 year old Grandpa. Like others have mentioned, it can be busy on the glacier and there can be large lines to get on the buses. Get there early to avoid most of this and walk around to avoid some of the crowds on the glacier. I suggest getting to the building right around 9am to get moving right away. The bus drivers were entertaining and full of cool info."
"I took the explorer bus up the glacier. Everything about it was spectacular, we even had a singing bus driver. The only thing I didn't like was the very short period of time we had on the glacier -- about 15 mins. There were so many buses up there that we were supposed to listen for a special honk, and I almost missed my bus back. Oops! Expensive, but totally worth it!"
"Me and my wife did the bus up to the glacier. Interesting information provided by the bus drivers. Stay at the glacier fro approx 20 minutes to look around and take photos. Like many of the attractions in the National Parks in the mountains, it was teaming with tourists. You wonder how interested some are when they show up in cocktail dresses and high heels to walk around a giant piece of ICE! Prepare for seeing a lifetime's worth of peace signs and stupid posing. Crazy Asians."
Lovely walk.. You get a real sense of how quickly our glaciers are receding by the markers that indicate their position according to the year. So sad.
"We booked the glacier adventure with Brewster's. They transport you from the main area in a bus to a staging point to get an ice bus. The ice bus then takes you to the glacier, the guide on the bus was good fun and knowledgable. You get about 15 minutes on the glacier, enough time for a few pictures and a walk about. Unfortunately it is completely commercialised and you are one of a couple of hundred people at any one time. That still does not take away from the fact that you are standing on ice that is 25,000 years old. The staff were friendly and knowledgeable and it is a well run operation. My tip- take suncream and sun glasses as it was extremely hot."
It was great to experience this Glacier Adventure. Imagine an ice that is so thick and has been there for millions of years and you're standing on it. Isn't it cool? Enjoy it while it's still there because it's slowly melting now. Lots of people were there.
"Go ahead and pony up for this - it is worth it! Hubby and I took the kids on those ultra rugged buses to the glacier where we got to romp around, drink pure glacier water and enjoyed being cold in August. The bus drivers were so sweet (we had Bri from Australia) and knowledgable - we learned so much from her."
"Skip the big, stinky busses but book a half day tour with the Ice Walks so you can enjoy walking on the glacier and get all the explanation, spend more time on the glacier and have a spectacular experience."
"Visited the glacier as part of our Brewster Icefields Parkway trip from Banff to Jasper. The glacier was just a part of the trip but very worthwhile, a must do in fact.Well organized, our bus arrived to a precise schedule and we had a hot and pretty good buffet lunch, then again at the appointed hour got on our bus to the glacier `bus` stop. Only a few minutes wait and then the ride on those enormous six wheeler buses along and over the lateral moraine and onto the glacier itself. There we we given adequate time (about half an hour) to walk around, take the statutory photographs, etc, then back with our knowledgeable driver who told us all the facts that you would want to know. Then back onto our bus, and on to the next place.A great visit, well organized to the minute almost, got to be in view of the number of visitors. Great an experience, if you are there you have got to do it."
Very interesting to go up onto a glacier. The bus takes you right on top of the bottom of the glacier. If you are adventuresome and do some preparation (correct shoes and clothing) you are better off hiking from the parking lot on up to the glacier - but that is a 2-3 hour roundtrip hike.
"Toured the Athabasca Glacier first, taking the wide track vehicle to the upper reaches. Excellent guide and the experience was definitely worth it. Yes it is crowded but anything worthwhile always will be. After the glacier we boarded a shuttle bus to take us 10 minutes up the highway to the new Glacier Skywalk. This is patterned after the one on the south rim of the Grand Canyon, which I haven't experienced so cannot do a comparison. However, I found the Glacier Skywalk a wonderful, although a little terrifying (in a nice way). It's cantilevered out over a sheer 900 foot drop and you are looking straight down through the plexiglass flooring to the boulders and stream below. I wouldn't have done it myself but, as I had my son with me, I had to pluck up my courage and show some fatherly leadership.....!"
"We did a separate tour. However, there is a lodge that provides food and toilets (however when we stopped all the toilets were backed-up/broken). You can explore the base of the glacier for free. The buses cost money and trek 1000s up people up a day. I did not look very impressive. We opted for a more natural hike with a guide."
The organisation is awfull. The way its overorganized made me feel as a milkcow. As cattle in a cradle you're lead to the busses. The organisation also laks flexibility. They give you too litte info at the desk. Do i was obliged to buy seperate tickets for the glacier walk and for the skywalk. Ik voel mij opgelicht. Screwed. The glacier itself deserves much more respect. People should not be allowed on the ice. This is an overcommercialized site. I am ashamed to have submitted this event.
"Upon clambering the snocoach, and putting along at 5mph, finally arrived at the glacier. Very cool. Great walking on a living piece of nature. Worrying how much it's receding. If on the West Coast, must do! While it's still there!"
"We have seen the glacier in 1998, 2008 and this year and each time it has decreased in size phenomenally which is a real shame. It is a definite go to attraction even now though especially if you have the children along."
"Nothing can quite prepare you for the feeling when you step into the ice, the strange, eerie feeling of knowing you are standing on ice that fell as snow thousands of years ago. The drive up is what you would call 'different.' First half in a bog standard tour coach only to be met by the Icefield Explorer. This takes you up onto the glacier. Just a note.... no matter how warm it may be at street level it's 'bloody freezing' up on the glacier. Make sure you take a bottle too, and try the run off water from the glacier. You'll never buy water like it. But it won't be here for ever. It's retreating at around 50 metres per year. At that rate in 100 years it'll be gone so you do have a little time yet...don't miss this!! You would do well to work out what time you'll be there and book tickets in advance..."
"The website for this attraction says it is an ""80 min journey"" and when you factor in wait time for the bus, the drive to and from the spot where you board the Ice Explorer, the short ride to the glacier and the 20 min. on the glacier I guess it roughly comes out to that amount of time. They also state you will have an ""experienced"" guide and while the young college student we had was very friendly and nice he was not very knowledgeable about the glacier or landscape and said this was his 1st time narrating the tour. Walking around on the glacier was an incredible experience, but the trip out to it was underwhelming and not worth the money."
"I loved my trip to the Athabasca Glacier and thought that the whole thing was very well organised. Our small group got tickets from the Icefield Centre (busy) and then was taken a short distance by shuttle bus where we were transferred to monster ice trucks which took us out onto the glacier where we were able to get off onto the ice and enjoy the sight and surroundings for about 20-30 minutes. The weather was lovely that day and it was much warmer out on the ice than I'd expected it to be. Well worth going to.Almost forgot to mention that, in both vehicles, we were given lots of interesting facts about the glacier by the drivers who were also very entertaining."
"The Icefield Highway in Jasper Nat'l Park is without doubt the most beautiful road I have ever travelled. That includes the American Rockies and the European Alps. Nowhere else can you see so many glaciers and icefields (and yes there is a big difference between the two.) An icefield is like the chocolate sauce you put on top of ice cream. It runs haphazardly down the sides of the scoop. The icefield is like a turquoise topping and the glaciers run off of the icefields which feed them. The snowcats which took us up are amazing in themselves. They have tires huge and aretreaded for the climb. Each tire is $5000. Each snowcat is $1,000,000. Once at the top, there are runoffs from the glacier which are pure enough to drink. The water is the BEST! All in all it is a once in a lifetime experience which should not be missed when visiting Jasper."
"This was the highlight of our Canadian Rockies Tours. It was a sunny day, so walking on top the glacier was not as cold as I had anticipated. Yes, only 20 minutes there, but it is worth it. We took in the scenery and experience, drank the glacier water flowing down. Overall, an unforgettable experience for us who live in the tropical region."
"Beautiful drive from Lake Louise. Take the time to take the tour of the glacier (leaves from the center.) Bring your own empty water bottle to enjoy some of the best, coldest water you'll ever have. Then park across the street and walk to the bottom of the glacier. You'll pass signs showing how far the glacier has receded in 100 years. Hard to describe the experience except 'worth it.'"
While traveling along the Icefield parkway you cannot miss the Athabasca Glacier and visitors center. We stopped for lunch at the center restaurant(very pricey even for a soup and sandwich). One can eat inside or out. The restaurant is across the street from the glacier and offers a nice view. After lunch we were taken over to a parking area were we boarded the ice coach glacier buggy. This is a bus with 5 ft diameter wheels that transverses the glacier. At one point the buggy travels down a hill which I believe was at 30 degree angle. Once out on the glacier one has about 30 minutes to explore walking on the glacier. There is a small little stream with water from the melting glacier one can drink and we were told by drinking it one would stay young. I did not although there were many filling their water bottles. On the way out to the glacier on the bus and on the return trip the driver gave everyone a history of the glacier and how it has been receding over the years which we could clearily see by the landscape.
See the glacier and visit the interpretive centre at the Chalet across the road. A trip on a glacier buggy is very informative. I learned that it is eco friendly to use these buggies on the ice.
"Wow this is a great informative tour. To go out onto the glacier is lovely, cold but lovely. The tour is very informative and the staff really know their stuff."
"My husband & I took a tour to this on 28.05.14. On the way to the ice fields we saw two bears, white goats, eagles, long horn sheep and the little things that look like meerkats (they will attack you apparently) We were absolutely stunned amazed & speechless to see the glacier. It is an experience that neither of us will ever forget. When we arrived it was dull & cloudy but as we approached on the monster buses, the clouds cleared and the sun came out that bathed the glacier in the most incredibly beautiful and magnificent landscape that left everyone in awe.An experience not to be missed."
"We parked our van in the parking lot near the Athabasca Glacier. The parking lot is free and on the opposite side of the Icefield Centre. There was a small and good road to the parking. There are good restrooms in parking lot. We walked up the hill to the Athabasca Glacier within 30 minutes. We are happy that they allow us to see the Glacier up close for free. Thank you, Canada."
It is fantastic and the staff are knowledgeable and friendly. Best value is when combining with other local attractions.
"Taking the Ice Explorer up onto the glacier is an experience I will never forget. The scenery is absolutely breathtaking! We got lucky with quite a warm clear day of about 10 degrees Celsius, but it is a glacier so can be freezing!! The drivers and staff were welcoming and funny, entertaining us on the way in and out. Definitely value for money and worth the visit."
"On the way from Banff to Jasper, we stopped over at the Columbia Icefield Centre and decided to take a trip up the Athabasca Glacier. We took the Brewster Ice Explorer monster wheel coaches (6 big tires the height of a grown person) all the way up to the edge of the Glacier. The most exciting part of the ride was the last approach to the destination which was I believe a steep 45 degree drop onto the glacier proper. Walking on the glacier was really something as you know that you were treading on an unbelievable thickness of ice formed over millions of years and one had to negotiate carefully as there were cracks here and there and the surface was decidedly slippery. Looking beyond the edge of the glacier up the mountain, it was hazy and one feels the mystery at the other end especially when spells of cold breeze swept your face from time to time. This is when one will feel awed by the forces of nature and appreciate how minute we are in this universe."
"loved the trip onto the ice, a got-to-do if you are in the area, it may not be around in generations to come"
The scale of this glacier is deceptive when seeing it from the road. My wife and I did the Ice explorer trip up onto the glacier which was a great experience as other glaciers aren't usually that accessible. Do the trip first thing in the morning as the tourists seem to come from nowhere after around 10.00am
"You can't miss this if you drive between Jasper and Banff, nor should you. The view from the road is already impressive. There's a very large car park near the very large tourist centre, and the reason for the size immediately became clear from the numbers of tourist buses around, even though this was the end of the season. The centre itself was so overcrowded that we abandoned it quickly! There's a clearly marked trail. also busy, leading up to the snout of the glacier, which is worth doing, but there's a strong cold wind pouring down from the ice, so wrap up. On the way are markers showing where the snout was over the past +100 years, as it has been retreating for several hundred years. This made the rather dramatic notice about recent climate change, placed closer to the glacier, rather incongruous. You can pay to go on a trip on a special bus from the visitor centre, right out onto the glacier. We decided not to, as the buses were packed even though they were going up frequently."
"we stopped here on our way from banff to jasper. it wasn't a nice day , it was rainy and cold.we decided to skip the tour and try our luck on our way back. it was worth the wait! when we came back 3 days later , it was a sunny perfect day. we took the tour with the big buses up to the glacier and it was a nice adventure. the thing is that they give you less than half an hour there witch we thougt wasn't enough. so we stayed more time and then hopped some other bus down and nobody really seemed to care.if you go to banff gondola before , then i recommend you to get your ticket there because it'll save you time and money:)"
Although my family was here when I was younger on a summer family vacation - truly a wonderful fun experience. Loved that it was summer and the mountains were snow covered. Fun experience for everyone.
It is a long drive from Banff to get there with very few interesting stops for refreshments or petrol. The views along the way are beautiful. The visitor centre and hotel is just off the road and apparently covered by snow in the winter months. One has to park the car and take one of the giant snow cats with wide tyres that winds it's way slowly onto the glacier. It is cold walking on the glacier and quite slippery even in the middle of summer. The photographic opportunities are tremendous due to the views. Even saw some mountain goats that are fearless as they have become used to the huge snow cats. The moraine pool at the bottom of the glacier is slowly disappearing due to the silt deposited by the glacier. The Columbia Icefield at the top of the glacier looks enormous and inaccessible. The visitor centre has expensive souvenirs and food but plenty of washrooms. If you are lucky to have a sunny day it is worth every dollar but not so comfortable if it is raining.
We took the Brewster Ice Explorer. It was kind of a fun experience to actually be out and walking on a glacier. Not awesome -- but we're glad we did it.
"Maybe it's because we have had far superior glacier experiences that this was kind of a waste of time. The ride on the big Brewster buses takes you to the edge of the glacier. Then you stand around, taste the glacier water, take a picture and get back on the bus. I think they allow about 20 minutes. We were back on the bus in 10. It's a real cattle call to stand in line, get herded on the bus, get herded off, get on the Brewster, get herded on, then repeat to return. I thinks it's expensive too. there are so many things to do on the Icefields parkway drive, I would skip this one."
"We got to the Columbia Icefields Center later in the day than we expected. We got on a bus tour and enjoyed it somewhat, though we felt the tour guide could have given more history and less jokes. THe glacier is huge and when you arrive (if weather cooperates), get off the Ice carrier and touch it, feel it, see the deep blue colors. We had a sudden snowstorm when we arrived and it is VERY COLD then with ice blowing in your face. Most of the tour group rushed back on the bus. My husband ran to where the water was running down the glacier crevasse and took pictures like a crazy man! I got back on the bus to get dry and warm up. I wish we had allotted time to walk down the walkway to the beginning of the glacier. By the time our tour returned, the Center was closing, thus no food. We changed clothes in the restroom (we were soaked from the sudden storm!) and went on our way. This experience might be better on a warm, sunny day, but even then you might get a sudden snowstorm!"
"On arrival we passed by each of the markers showing where the glacier was at specific dates. We parked and went looking for the tour only to find it was back up the road, with coach loads of other tourists arriving every few minutes.In the end we decided to walk up to the glacier for a quick view. (20 minute walk each way, in the very cold breeze)"
"what a wonderful this experience was on my recent trip through the Canadian Rockies. Everything about this excursion was 1st rate-1st the shuttle bus to the foot of the glacier (driver gave a great commentary) ,then transferred to huge ice carrier (again driver gives a funny and knowledgable commentary). then out to walk around the glacier-very slippery , but absolutely exhilerating. Then back the same way. So professional. The food hall was well stocked and comfortable. I would recommend this trip to all ages."
"The glacier may be receding, but the Brewster-run tour is still fascinating, helped by enthusiastic drivers of the Snocoaches and linking buses. Not a cheap trip, but a unique one."
"This was amazing, short trail to the foot of the glacier, the temperature dropping as the wind comes off the ice, we ducked off the marked trail and headed for the makeshift bridge over the rushing glacier water creek to walk on the glacier, amazing and free instead of spending $50 to take a bus to do the same thing farther up the glacier."
Visited in August - walking from the parking lot to the glacier the temperature must have dropped 15-20 degrees - what an experience to see something so vast and ancient and with so much impact to our environment - highly relevant in these times of climate concerns and definitely made a big impact on the kids.
"Although the area is extremely touristic, it is worthwhile heading for the parking lot at the foot of the glacier, and to walk up the panorama trail. Taking the bus to ride on the glacier or taking the glacier walk are other options, yet as mentioned: too much exploited. It's a choice...Yet, one should be aware of the size of the icefields above the Athabasca Glacier, to understand how huge the ice fields are. That is very well documented in the Athabasca Glacier Centre. So: mixed feelings about availability of information and exploitation of tourism."
Having read the reviews - yes it can be expensive - but it's well worth it. When we arrived in late September it was snowing lightly and cold. Some folks in trainers were sliding about so good shoes/boots are essential. The journey to the glacier through the moraine was made very informative by our driver who delivered information in a highly amusing and unique way. The 20 mins on the glacier was just awesome. After 10mins we entered a whiteout and although this caused some in the group to head back to the vehicle we stayed to experience in a tiny way what first explorers must experience. Food in the restaurant followed - this is a buffet and there is plenty of food with refills (recommend the sweet and sour). If you are considering going discount any doubt and GO!!!
"Athabasca glacier looks good from the road but it is much better to go on the bus tour and see it up close, if the weather is nice. We went when they had just had the first snow of the winter and the sun came out too. It was a really educational tour and the glacier was beautiful. amazing to stand on it. It is cold up there to take warm clothes and good shoes. this review is really for the glacier and not the tour, it is free to look at but not free for the tour."
"After a bit of a wait (15 minutes) we were taken by bus for a short drive (8 minutes) to where the ice explorer vehicles are waiting. This short bus ride was made pleasant by a driver who told some interesting facts about the surrounding mountains and the flora and fauna. Then followed the transfer to the explorer. This is a fairly impressive bus equipped with 6 wheel drive. The drive to and on the ice field is here and there very steep and the view alone is worth the trip. On the ice field you get some 25 minutes to take your pictures.The driver will answer any questions you have about thickness of the ice, size of the ice field, movement, etc.. For me that was enough. You don't get to walk very far for obvious security reasons. It wouldn't do Brewster any good if they lost passengers in crevasses on every trip. All in all a trip well worth the expense."
"Great tour but you don't get to wander far. Wrap up and wear decent shoes.
Lovely shades of ice blue. Bit mucky in places. Water very cold"
"As most glaciers around the world is receding, it is more and more important to focus on preservation!!! I am saying this first and foremost because after I got over my tourist haze, standing in front and on top of the stunning glacier. I thought of how sad of a sight this is. Again mankind is making money off of a gift from the Earth and at the expense of mother Earth. Between 1500 to 3000 people are trucked up to the glacier EACH and EVERY day!!! (This data is collected from my Ice Explorer driver, I forget his name but he's one of the longest running driver in the company) No wonder the glacier is receding at record rate! Well what with global warming, it's a bit of a losing battle... Here's the blurb from the tourist in me...I finally took the time to visit the Canadian Rockies after being a Canadian for over 20 years. So when I heard about the opportunity to step foot on a glacier, I looked into it and made a decision.First, if you are visiting the Rockies without a car like myself, bring extra money or bring lots of LUCK! There is NO method of public transportation between Jasper and Lake Louise. The Greyhound bus is NOT allowed as this area is designated as a National Park. So bring your Luck if you want to use your thumb and try to hitch a ride to the Columbia Icefield Discovery Centre. Else bring your money and pay the only tour operator which also happens to own the rights to the Icefields. Just stepping onto the Glacier for 15 minutes will cost you $49.95 (without transportation costs). So do yourself a favour and bring an empty bottle, if you want to bottle some of the sweet tasting glacier melt water home!!I ended up paying about $170 to HI Lake Louise Hostel which included 1 night of dorm, ride to the Icefield, admission onto the Glacier and either return back to the hostel in Lake Louise or choose to be dropped off in Jasper. I chose to be dropped off in Jasper as that saved me $77 for the Brewster bus ticket (one-way between Lake Louise and Jasper).I paid the STEEP price because I was already here and wasn't sure if I would return in the future. It would be cool for me to step foot on a North American glacier after trekking on a glacier in South America at the beginning of the same year.Make your own decision to visit or not - weigh your pros and cons."
"You are taken by bus so far by a guide, & then transfered to an Ice Explorer vehicle that takes you out onto the glacier itself accompanied by an amusing guide & driver.I cannot describe what it feels like to stand & walk on a glacier (especially when the sun was shining as it was for our visit). The ice shines a pale blue & water is fast flowing. (To drink it is supposed to make you look instantly younger - I did not notice any effect personally.)You must stay within the safe marked boundaries. The water that fills the lakes & rivers is a murky turquoise colour which is caused by the rock flour that is made by the ice rubbing against the rock as it moves on down the mountain.Awesome is not a word I use much, but this experience was just that! There is a cafe/restaurant & gift shop at the visitors centre."
"You can't miss it from Hwy 93 in both directions - it's huge. You can drive right up to the toe of the glacier, where you can see the full extent of the glacier. Plenty of free parking off the hwy. From the car park, you can walk across the area where the glacier has retreated and there are date markers where the toe of the glacier used to be. It has retreated a lot over the past 100 years. You cannot walk on the glacier from this point, unless you have booked an individual guide. We did the Monster truck tour on our return journey, but from the toe you get a much wider perspective of the whole glacier and on opportunity to see the detail of the terminal moraine etc. Wonderful - and free."
"""Wow,"" just about sums up this trip,We were driven to the Ice Explorers by a knowledgable coach driver. The IE driver maintained the high standard as he took us onto the glacier.To stand atop this magnificent natural monument was an experience to savour. The views simply spectacular.How could anyone miss out on this?Take warm clothing, preferably a waterproof with a hood and a hat. Wear sensible shoes and trousers. No bare legs or arms. (unlike the couple we saw, she in short skirt and ballet pumps, he in shorts and flip flops) It blew an icy blizzard for 5 minutes whilst we were there, then stopped as suddenly as it had started."
"An unforgettable experience for me to ride the ice explorer and walk on the glacier. Wow! The view from the restaurant as well as on the glacier itself was awesome! One item off my bucket list. I was finally able to experience the GLACIER which was just something I read in the books and saw on tv. It was overwhelming to be in the middle of one and touch the bluish icy pavement with some danger spots somewhere. We were told to just stay in designated areas. With global warming, it is sad to think that these glaciers might just be a thing of he past."
"What an experience! The trip up to the glacier the guides give a brief but very interesting history of the glacier. Walking on it was amazing. What a pity that on the way down one of the guides, an older man spoke to me like I was dirt on his shoe. As we got down off the glacier, being a smoker I lit up, before anyone says anything there were ashtrays and I wasn't the only one. Coming into his eye contact he rated at me, you put that out. I tried to explain that I thought we could smoke when he rolled his eyes and said to those in his ear shot filthy habit. Embarrassed I put the cigarette out. Had I had any idea that smoking was not allowed I would never have lit up. There was no, no smoking signs and several ash trays around with cigarettes other people had smoked. But hey although annoying and embarrassing it didn't ruin our overall experience and although this man had the manners of an oaf the other guides were brilliant."
"I visited this beautiful place with my parents in July 2013 as a part of the Royal Caribbean Cruise tour. It was just an awesome experience. Firstly, we had a delicious lunch at the a glacier dining restaurant at the base point of the glacier. To visit the glacier, you need to take a special bus ride known as ice explorer The journey to the top of the glacier was really exciting. the bus driver made us familiar with the bits and pieces of the glacier. Just an unforgettable ride it was..!! We stepped down at the top of the glacier and stayed there for approximately 20-25 minutes. It was frigid outside but at the same time, breathtaking views of the beautiful glacier made us feel like to be in the heaven. It was a sunny day, so we had full visibility of the stunning glacier. Sunglasses and a cozy worm jacket is a must for enjoying this place to the fullest. I would recommend this place to any visitor coming to Canadian Rockies."
"Both the walk on the toe of the glacier and the drive onto the glacier was amazing! Truly a once in a lifetime experience. When out on the glacier by bus, we needed winter coats even though the temps were in the 80s back at the lodge. When out on the toe of the glacier by foot, we saw a collapse ice cave that was a magnificent shining blue. The fee for the bus drive out onto the glacier was about $50 per person, there was no fee for walking out onto the toe of the glacier."
We recently went to the Canadian Rockies and one of the best experiences was walking on the Athabasca glacier. We were brought up there by special vehicles and allowed to walk an area of the glacier for approximately 20 minutes. It was a great way to get in touch with nature. The guides/drivers were informative and entertaining. It was a wonderful
"Definitely worth the money, go on the snocoach and go up onto the glacier, drink some glacier water and marvel in the beauty of the glacier."
"My husband and I thoroughly enjoyed the three-hour afternoon icewalk with a guide from New Zealand who was personable, informative and fun. This is truly an educational experience in a stunningly beautiful ""classroom."" We are in our mid-50s and had no trouble at all with the pace. This tour was a highlight of our week in the area!"
"Taking the hiking to the glacier was exhilarating and worth all the effort. The bus that takes lazy and unimaginative tourists should be ashamed to pollute a fragile glacier. It was my first time to hike to the glacier, and you can see how mankind is destroying our nature.The icewalk tour was easy and patient to help the slower members, as not all of us are super heroes. It was certainly worth all the effort."
"The glacier itself was one of the highlights of our trip. A short hike to get close to something so awe-inspiring. We went in the evening, after the bus tours were closed for the day, and had the entire area to ourselves.It seems a shame to experience such a majestic area by driving onto it in a gas guzzling bus. As other reviewers have stated: the snowcoaches haul thousands of people daily, and you can see the result. The glacier looks dirty. It really detracts from what should be a natural marvel. Take the hike instead - it REALLY adds to the experience!"
"Wasn't sure if we should do snocoach, 3-hour Iced Cube tour, or 6-hour Icewalk Deluxe tour...read the description to the family, me, my husband and 15-year-old son, and 12-year-old twin boys...all elected for 6-hour deluxe tour. It was amazing...we hiked 3 miles from the toe of the glacier to the head wall. Ate our lunch and then returned. I can't imagine seeing the glacier any other way. The terrain changed dramatically on different parts of the glacier. Our guide was amazing, especially with our boys. It was not too cold, but we did bundle up with the hats, gloves and rain pants supplied by our guide. It was the best money we spent...and not much more than the snocoach. We felt sorry for the people on the coach as there are tons of them standing on a small part of the glacier, for a short time. We had the whole glacier to ourselves for over six hours! Amazing! A must do!"
"This has to be a highlight of the rockies visit! The crew are very knowledgeable and give you so much information about glaciers as well as their trucks to take you onto the glacier. Wrap up warm and wear something sensible on your feet for this trip. You can drink the glacial water and hold some incredibly clear ice. It was an amazing experience. If I had more time, I'd like to walk out there."
When we were here 18 years ago we only went as far as the parking lot. This time we took the bus tour up to the glacier. It was definitely worth it. Bring lunch. The restaurant and snack bar are over priced and not very exciting.
"Enjoyed the glacier....mountains surrounding the area are majestic and awe inspiring. The entire road going to the glacier area is worth it....pack your lunch, if you can. Food is very expensive....2 tuna fish sandwiches and chips cost us $32 US dollars..."
"Our photo club touring group had a private Ice Explorer experience. Hang on! The ride on the glacier is breathtaking. It was misty rainy on the way there then the blue sky and sun appeared just for us as we walked on the glacier. There were many tourists at the top taking photos and trying to drink some of the glacial water -- hint: bring a water bottle or cup with you and take a taste. As we were leaving, the sun and blue sky went away -- we are soooo lucky! This was definitely one of the major highlights of our 2-week trip across Canada."
"Worth a short stop while doing the Icefields Parkway, but wouldn't call it the highlight of the trip, unless you have never seen the snow."
Everyone should take the ride up the Glacier at least once in their life time. The history of the Glacier is so interesting and it is amazing to learn how much it has receded over the years.My husband has done mountain rescue training on the Glacier and even had to rescue a woman who fell into a crevice. It is a beautiful spot...but you do have to take care!
"As we were staying in the Glacier View Inn in the Icefields Centre, we were able to let all the crowds leave before walking out to the glacier. The glacier has retreated quite a bit it appears, and the view isn't as close as we would have liked. We opted not to go on the bus tour that takes you on to the glacier - that might have been a good experience. Regardless, if you don't plan to go on the bus tour, I recommend visiting after 6pm (the last bus is at 6pm), to avoid all the crowds. The walk out is peaceful and the views are wonderful."
"It wasn't cheap but worth doing once in your lifetime. You can drink the glacial water and it was truly the best tasting water I've ever had in my life; ice-cold tastelessness never tasted so wonderful! When you go, bring a water bottle so you can have more of it and not freeze your hand off by dipping then into the glacial stream. Honestly, I wish I had brought an empty 2 liter bottle so I could have more."
"Twas a drizzly, chilly day as we drove from Jasper to the ice fields. Perfect for walking on the glacier. We thought about taking the busses that drive up onto the glacier but, thankfully, - we took the three hour ""ice cubed ice walk"" on the glacier instead. There were 10 people and our excellent guide, Bernard. He had all the extra clothing, shoes, etc we needed for walking up the glacier. Once we left the hard surface and started up the glacier we had to put special clampons over our shoes for stability on the ice. Bernard was a font of knowledge about geology, glacial history. It was an awesome experience - well worth the money. Be sure to have this experience before the glacier melts - just kidding, but it is melting by a great deal every year. We highly recommend."
"A highlight on the tour from Jasper to Banff. Leaving the Icefields Centre by a conventional bus to the glacier bus park and then on to on one of the specially built high wheel base Snow-coach buses with its enormous balloon tyres. Driven down a slope of 31 degrees over the moraine and on to the surface of the glacier with our cheerful driver giving a commentary - and demonstrating the vehicles braking system! Spent around 1/2 hour walking on the glacier before returning on the Snow-coach up the hill again (it felt like an aircraft take off - but a lot slower!). On the glacier we are warned to keep within the roped circle. Some foolish persons tried their luck outside the circle and got very wet as their feet disappeared through the ice crust. The warnings are there for a purpose - there could be deep crevasses, not visible at the surface - so beware! Great views on the glacier - and from the two buses, spoiled only by the realisation that the Athabasca Glacier is receding steadily, so the scene has changed a lot over the last century and will, sadly be changing again as years go by. Altogether a great couple of hours or so after visiting the Icefields Centre."
"Brief and expensive, but a worthwhile trip. Walking on the glacier is a real thrill and the views are fantastic. It's a bit of a tourist production line (well run) but the experience was worth the crowds."
"We had a beautiful clear day, with the sun shining. The icefield buses are huge. The operation is slick, moving lots of people quickly. The drive onto the glacier is exciting and you can walk on the glacier for 15 minutes but only in a small area. It is expensive $50 an adult but I guess to say you have walked on a glacier, it is worth it. If you don't want to pay you can walk on it from a car park opposite the information centre."
"We took A tour to the Columbia Icefield's with Brewster's Tours. We were picked up from our Banff hotel by a luxury coach driven by their superb guide Paul Huxley. We enjoyed a beautiful drive to the Icefields along Highway 93, one of the most scenic roads in the world. The Columbia Icefield spans the Continental Divide and it is head water to three major river systems. After lunch we boarded a specially design giant tractor/coach called a Snocoach to visit the Athabasca Glacier The vehicle is designed to negotiate the access ice road to the glacier, which is understood to be the second steepest road in the world. Once on the glacier surface we all alighted and spent time admiring the scale and beauty. A super drive back through the fabulous scenery. A truly wonderful day, don't miss this experience."
"Don't miss the chance to take the glacier tour - you won't regret it. We had a bright and clear sunny day - the perfect weather, plus a great tour guide - James. The icefield buses (not sure that you can really call this million dollar transporters buses!!!) are true wonders and the experience of walking on the glacier and drinking the glacier melt are once in a lifetime experiences. Great commentary on the science of glaciers and the park. Seeing big horn sheep was a bonus."
"This trip is a lot of fun. It was cold and snowy, but so enjoyable with our great Aussie driver.These young people do a tremendous job making sure you have fun. This is the third time we have been out on this glacier, but the first time so early in the season. it is a MUST Do, if you are ever in this area. The food at the lodge is rather expensive, but welcoming.they do have over it accommodations for folks who want to climb the Athabasca Columbia Glaciers."
"Amazing - natural - and will disappear wtih global warming. Do recommend to take the Bus to the glacier, simply the best views. if possible, take the walking tour with a guide."
"A great visit. The drive up there is simply gorgeous, and the whole site is top notch. I highly recommend to walk on the glacier with a guide. It is very sad to see that the glacier is getting smaller and smaller every year."
"Excellent driver and guide on the glacier, Sami (?) We learned alot and enjoyed the experience and have great pictures to help us remember this great day. On the day we went the sun was shining and the temperature was very comfortable. We would definitely recommend this adventure to others."
Went on to the glacier on the ice bus. What an experience. All my geography lessons at school paled into insignificance when standing and walking on the glacier.
"Athabasca Glacier Icewalks. A memorable experience with a great, well-informed guide. They provide you walking shoes or crampons (if you have good shoes), waterproof clothing, gloves, and more. It was slow walking up the gentle incline of the glacier. You need the expert guide to avoid crevasses, hack steps when needed, and be safe. A great, outdoor experience, not to be missed."
"We visit this every so often and have been coming here since the 70's. We like to stay at Wilcox creek Campground.It is interesting to see how far this glacier has receeded in my lifetime alone. The toe used to touch the moraine back when I first came here, then I remember hiking up the moraine to get to the toe in the 2005 and reaching the sign that said 1994 - the previous time that I had been there. There was still a long way to go. This is pretty cool, you can walk to the toe and sometimes, Parks Canada has a roped off area where you can walk out onto the glacier. You can also take guided tours or go out on a Snow Coach to get on the ice.This is always a good stop, and take some warm clothing with you, it is cold out on the glacier."
"In this amazing and beautiful glacier we could see how the pass of the years are finishing with this glacier., We were walking until be beside of him and only 20 years ago the glacier was coming 100 metres down the hill. It was one of my favourite places in this area"
"We drove all day towards the glacier from lake Louise. The sights along the Icefields Parkway were constantly awesome, a neverending vista of peaks and glaciers. Around every corner was another photostop and although the weather deteriorated as the day wore on[our only day of rain in the whole month] we managed to come out of the rain and the skys began to clear as we got to Peto Lake, [do stop here-the colour of the lake is amazing] and then Athabasca glacier. What an awesome visit that was-a must do. We took the ice bus onto the glacier down an 18*slope-so exciting to see a glacier at such close quaters and actually be able to walk on it. Wear good non slip shoes or take a walking stick like i did!! and your camera-I guarentee you will be awed into silence.We paid less by prebooking at Banff Gondola for 3 attractions,[Lake Minnewanka,Banff Gondola and Glacier bus] but i believe you can do the same from the glacier visitor centre if you are doing the Parkway in reverse to Banff. It does save quite a bit as the tickets are not cheap-$57approx for glacier.Food is good at the visitor centre and not that expensive.We did the glacier tour first then did the walk from the bottom of the glacier car park later. Park first in the visitor centre carpark to dothe tour, then you can drive over to the other carpark, otherwise it is a lot of walking."
I'm so happy I had the opportunity to get this done. We took the bus onto the glacier and it was amazing. We had a small amount of snow cover and had a mini snow fight :) also it was recommended we fill up a water bottle with fresh glacial water and it tasted like so very refreshing and the fact that you're standing on a glacier is a truly memorable experience.
"Excellent attraction - worth your time - do no pass it up if you are driving the Ice Fields Parkway!! Full service visitor center (no charge). Allow 1-2 hrs time for the visitor center itself. Another 1 hr for the glacier ride (optional) and well worth the expense. Price for food on the high side - so bring your own snacks. Be sure and use your AAA/CAA/AARP card to get your discount for the glacier excursion which is highly recommended ($45 Canadian with discount). You will need a warm coat and good shoes for the glacier excursion because you will spend 20 minutes walking around the glacier and that is more than enough time to experience the RAW air coming down the glacier from the Columbia Ice Fields. This attraction should be on everybody's ""bucket list""."
"Even if you don't have the kit still go as gloves hats, boots, crampons etc are provided if required. Be prepared for a slight climb to begin, you will puff a bit if you normally live at sea level! Larry, our guide was brilliant, amazing enthusiasm and knowledge, I will never forgot all that I learned on this walk. It is dangerous without a guide, don't even think about going alone. The scenery is beautiful, the streams and mill wells awesome. It was good walking with a group of complete strangers, we all soon started to help each, working as a team. I would highly recommend this trip and drink the glacier water whilst you're up there! Fab"
"While the whole experience was a bit commercialized, walking on the Athabasca Glacier (part of the Columbia Icefields) is a must do!My husband and I rode the brewster ice explorer two km up the glacer and got out to walk around in a designated area.It was extremely windy, and much colder than at the icefields centre so pack your toque and mittens!"
The Athabasca Glacier is a sight to see. You can't imagine the size of the glacier and it's relationship to the mountains around it. This is well worth the trip to see it.
"On the Icefields parkway, between Banff and Jasper, you can see the Athabasca glacier/Columbia icefield. There is buses that take you to the top. You can get the ticket from Sulphar mountain gandola ticket center or Visitor center near to the athabasca glacier(costs $40/person). Next option is walk yourself. On our way, we saw some cars parked away from the highway, near to the mountain. From there we hiked(keep the jacket, gloves and cap..If it is manageable, you can hike. It is not that difficult). While we were hiking, we saw many people on the way.You will reach very close to the glacier. The buses take you to the top on the glacier. Even if you dont want to hike, you can pull over on the highway and take pictures. We visited on June 2011"
"Felt like a true Canadian holding the flag posted at the top of the glacier. Please be safe and pay for the tour instead of attempting to walk the toe of the glacier yourself! There are crevasses that one can fall into and it has happened! Great tour and alotted about 20 minutes at the glacier to walk on...dont drink the water either as I saw some doing...ick! Anyhow, great experience to actually stand on a piece of natural history! Had lunch at the main office and so much enjoyed the drive along the Icefields Parkway!"
"The hike to the toe of the glacier was long, uphill, stone-covered, tiring and worth it! Take a coat, hat and gloves - you'll need them. You get withing 25' of the glacier itself, not on it, but close. We had planned to visit Mount Edith Cavell and get closer to a glacier, but it was closed due to a glacier slide in August 2012. This was as close as we got. There are signs indicating where the glacier ended in 1948, 1982, 2000 and others. Another sign indicated that the glacier woudl be gone in 100 years. You reach the head of the hiking trail from what is known as the lower parking lot. It is across the highway from the Icefield Centre. A not-to-be-missed experience."
"My husband and I visited the Glacier in early September this year [2012] and it was an amazing experience. We were doing the Brewsters Bus trip from Banff to Jasper and called in here as one of 'must do' stops. It was raining when we arrived at the Visitors center down on the main road and when it came time to get on the bus to go up to the glacier it was still raining. Half way up to the Glacier base station the weather changed and we werent quite sure what was going on and then we realised it had started to snow. it began lightly and when it came time to get on the Glacier bus it started to snow heavier. This happened all the way to the glacier itself and when we got out onto the glacier it kept snowing. this was the first time hubby and I had been in snow falling like this. It was wonderful to experience this. Walking on the glacier was a little scary but we just had to be careful and walk slowly. This is truly and amazing place and well worth the visit, even if it isnt snowing. As we left the glacier it stopped snowing and the sun came out and we had blue sky. We will never forget this amazing day. Anyone who has the chance to do this trip, do it and be part of the awsome experience walking on the glacier. We would do it again if we visit that area again."
This was the most amazing experience on the Columbia Icefield. We went on the snowmobile up onto the glacier. And we had a perfect day with clear blue sky. Apparently they only get half a dozen like that in a season and we were lucky enough to have one of them.
"My visit to Athabasca Glacier took place in July 2012, as part of a lengthy road trip that had me drive from my Southern California home all the way to Jasper. Athabasca was definitely a worthy stop, due to it being on Icefields Parkway connecting Banff and Jasper, and also being the only easily accessible glacier from my driving route.- Location -There are many glaciers in the Canadian Rockies, and the Columbia Icefields, which straddles British Columbia and Alberta, is the largest ice shelf in North America south of Alaska. Many glaciers flow down from Columbia Icefields on their way to feeding rivers and flowing to the Pacific, the Atlantic, AND the Arctic; Athabasca, which is only 2% of Columbia Icefields, feeds the Athabasca River which eventually joins Mackenzie River and flows into the Arctic in Yukon Territory.Athabasca Glacier is the only glacier that can easily be reached without extensive hiking; in fact, when first discovered in the 1840s, the glacier extended all the way to today's visitor parking area. The glacier has retreated considerably since then, and also lost much of its volume and depth, thanks to global warming over the decades, both natural and man-made; at the current pace of warming, the glacier will cease to exist in about 600 years.- Experience -It is possible to hike to the base of the glacier, and walk onto the glacier itself, though due to the danger of hidden crevasses, such a walk would be outright suicidal for an untrained solo traveler like me.I instead went to the visitor center across the highway from the glacier, and paid $50 to take a bus tour operated by the Brewster Company. This tour, offered only during summer months, uses a standard motorcoach to take visitors up halfway the glacier, then transfer to specialized TerraBus ice buses to actually get on the middle portion of the glacier. The tour is an hour in total, and 20 minutes of that is actually spent walking on the glacier; the visitor-safe area is hardened daily to eliminate the possibility of crevasse falls.Both the motorcoach driver and the ice bus driver narrate various points of interest around the glacier, as well as interesting facts about the ice bus, the glacier itself, and so forth. These Brewster seasonal employees come from across Canada and overseas, and have interesting perspectives; my ice bus driver, a retired Japanese accountant named Masami Okada (he said his coworkers simply call him ""Sami""), was definitely very memorable thanks to his accent and Japanese sense of dry humor.- Visiting tips -Even though it was midsummer, I found it quite chilly (reason why there IS a glacier in the first place!). I could only expect temperatures around 15 degrees Celsius (60 Fahrenheit) on the glacier itself. Bundling up, and wearing shoes that have good snow traction, are a must. (I had a pair of Ugg boots in my car just for this purpose.)The visitor area in the midst of the glacier is hardened for safety. It is surrounded by cones - the bus drivers remind visitors to never go beyond the cones. The visitor area also has several flagpoles with Canadian flags, for visitors to use as photo props.Of course, take lots of photographs. And don't forget sunscreen - the bright ice reflects sunlight very well. Most importantly, don't forget to drink some of that fresh glacial water as it melts and flows around the visitor area.- Afterthought -A one-of-a-kind experience! Despite the rather short duration and the high cost of the bus tour, I still thought it was worth it, just to check off of my ""to-do"" list. And it is always an amazing feeling when I leave my driveway in balmy Southern California and drive north far enough, that I can actually walk on a glacier, and drink some fresh snowmelt that would otherwise have gone all the way to the Arctic Ocean.The rather high cost and touristy feel is the only reason I am giving a 4 rating, rather than a perfect 5. Nevertheless a must-see."
"The current bus is great for viewing glacier which is much better than twenty years ago. At that time, the bus was much smaller and could only get to the foot of the glacier. Now the bus can get much closer to the glacier. It's fun; highly recommended."
"We chose to park at the bottom and walk up to the glacier. It's a bit of a hike, but well worth it. You walk past markers showing where the glacier's edge USED to be and it's a sobering realization just how much we've affected climate change to see how much the glacier has receded. The view, once you're at the edge is simply amazing. There aren't words to describe just how beautiful nature is at it's best. We may have taken the tour onto the ice itself, but arrived too late in the day. We will definitely be back for the 'full' experience."
"Our trip to the glacier consisted of enjoying the incredible views from a distance. Having hiked on other glaciers we chose to just take in the scenery. The cost of the ""Ice Explorer"" bus tour was a little more than we wanted to pay for a repeat experience. You can get close to the glacier on your own with a short walk. Crowds can be a problem depending on the time of the day, very early or late in the afternoon is the best...either way stop and look at the ice field."
"This trip to the glacier was one of its own kind...in addition to the glacier the buses that take you there is another thing to see... the tires of the buses are huge...the bus costs a few millions and in the world there are a few of them...don't miss it...the buses will take you over the glaciers...and you can touch the glaciers light blue ice...walk on it, take pictures and enjoy..."
"Having made the spectacular drive up from Banff I was already in awe of the scenery, you can hike up to the glacier or take the shuttle coach that takes you up to the ice bus change over: Tickets on the day are expensive but can be linked in with Banff gondola ride: at the glacier expect crowds: photographs in the visitors centre not the sad decline of the glacier so go see it while you can. Enjoyed it:"
"We took the trip on the large 6 wheel drive transportation up onto the Athabasca Glacier. Our driver gave us a lot of information on the glacier, its size and its history. Also, the vehicle that took us up the mountain was amazing on its own and we enjoyed hearing about that as well. We were able to walk on safe areas of the glacier. We took empty water bottles and filled them with fresh flowing glacier melt off and it was clean and cold and just terrific! It was a site to behold and simply a high lite of our trip to Jasper Park. Don't just look at this glacier from afar - experience it by walking on it!!!"
"great little centre, nice little hike, and super cool to see/stand on a glacier. Didn't do the brewster truck thing (not sure of cost) but had a good time checking it out. 2 - 3 hours is enough time!"
"The glacier is well worth a visit just for the experience of walking on a glacier, although you are limited to where you can walk. If you wish to walk further take one of the guided hikes up the glacier. We chose to use the sno-mobiles which were huge. My husband is 6 foot and stood at the side of them he only just reached the top of the tyres. This glacier is as depth as the eiffel tower is tall which was quite unbelievable. It is a shame that is it receding and may well not be there in 100 years. The drive across the ice fields parkway is spectacular."
"We had a great adventure riding the $1.0 million dollar 6 speed vehicle that took us onto the glacier. We bought a combo ticket for the Banff gondola and the Athabasca Glacier and we're glad we did both. The driver was also the guide/narrator and he was very informative about the glacier, the surrounding area and vehicle. To actually stand on the glacier was great. There are wonderful views from the visitor center also."
"Yes, there are many other glaciers that are whiter, higher, older, more pristine and bigger than this one - especially in the Columbia Icefield - but you can't usually see them as up close as this unless you take a helicopter. It is, despite receding, still huge, cold, deep, rocky, ancient and beautiful. We had a nice easy walk to the site, and tried to avoid the crowds, the ""sno-coaches"" and the guided tours. (I had my own Geologist on hand to explain what I was looking at.) Glaciers advance or recede much like flowing rivers - and this one demonstrates that very well. One more thing for your Bucket List."
"its not often im speachless but this was one of those moments, the walk up to the glacier nearly killed me, however if my 12 year old daughter and my husband could do it then so could i, was it worth the hike? hell yes, i have never seen anything like it in my life, what an experiance, i wouldnt have missed it for the world, people had told me that it was dissaperaring and wasnt worth the visit, well i can tell you, its well worth the visit as you might never see anything like this ever again.!!!!!!!!!!!!!"
"As a Texan escaping the 100+ degree heat, I traveled to Jasper Alberta Canada. One of the adventures that I had was riding the sno-coach to the Columbia Ice-field and the magnificent Athabasca Glacier. I walked on the glacier and loved the cold temperature. The guide said that it was 5 degrees Celsius on the glacier. Remember this was in July. This was a great time and there were more things to sign up for at the visitor's center. You could hike on the glacier if you desired. A guide would take you out there.This was well worth the money and time. If I go back, I will also do the hike. I highly recommend this. Driving to the glacier we saw the most beautiful scenery. The price was around $50.00 each for adults. Children cost less, but not sure the price."
"A glacier is a glacier, so if you have seen any glacier in the world you can easily skip this one. Besides, the snocoaches that take you to destination are enormous buses that probably contribute a lot to the global warming that is causing glaciers to shrink, and are very pricey. Coming from Italy, and having a direct experience of snow-mountains-galciers, I found this excursion disappointing, being taken to a place (or a similar one) I could have probably reached on foot, where I had the impression of being in a sandbox surrounded by huge coaches, instead of being on a real beach.I have seen people from warm countries enjoy the experience very much. For all the others, it's better to skip the whole thing."
"Excellent and informative guide, well worth the trip even although it was freezing and raining. Sad to hear this glacier could disappear in the next 100/125 years. Loved every minute."
"This was our 4th time we had taken this guided tour from ""ice walk"" Jasper. We took our 2grandkids 12 and14. Our Canadian guide Todd was the best yet. We had well over 3 hrs on the glacier. Weather was cloudy and drizzle but that didn't matter. 20mins spent ensuring everyone was dressed for the weather and as soon as we got onto the ice we all put on crampons and felt really safe. He was great with the kids in the group(14). The highlight for them was looking down a deep mill well(hole) while he held on to them. We all learnt so much. If you are of average fitness this is a MUST for ALL ages and cannot be compared with riding on the Brewster snow coach!!!!"
"We arrived at the Athabasca Glacier around 10 am on the Tuesday morning and beat the July crowds. We took advantage of the offer to buy tickets for both the Icefield trip and the Banff Gondola which saved us time when we actually went to the Banff Gondola. First of all we took a bus to where we would meet the Icefield Explorer. Both the bus and explorer guides were very knowledgeable. The weather was perfect and there was no need for us to have all of the extra clothes that we wore - temperatures in the 60's. Although this is an excursion I would not do again (because once you've seen the glacier - no need to see it again) I'm glad that we did. It's the first glacier I've actually seen and had the opportunity to walk on. There are restrooms, a cafeteria, picnic tables, gift shop available. The drive along the Icefields Parkway to get to the glacier is SPECTACULAR. So much to see....and so many places to stop. Don't miss this drive. And make sure that your car has a full tank of gas!"
"I live in Toronto, so I see plenty of ice and snow all year. We wanted to do something active rather than ride the bus and the hike to the glacier was a good way to stretch our legs and see something interesting as we drove along the Icefields Road, on the way to Jasper."
hadn't been here in many many years. Its so beautiful. We took the trip up to the glacier. Was an amazing experience. Wheel chair and stroller friendly
How many people can say that they actually walked on a Glacier!! It was a just so cool to be able to get on it. The Columbia Ice Center has a nice place to eat and a museum downstairs that well worth looking into.
Words cannot describe the beauty of the place. It is a mind blowing experience and gives one an idea about the devastating effects of global warming.
It was very crowded and the hike was very easy as well. In general I like the area as there are multiple glaciers and you don't need to hike and can still enjoy the view as much. The Columbia ice center is also a great rest area for people traveling from Lake Louise/Banff to Jasper. They also have a cafe which has the glacier view.
"this walk is well worth it...you are seeing history in the making. The land is like a moonscape, barren but with plants and animals struggling to survive. The glacier is melting and receding....it's like nothing I've seen before...."
"One of the few places in the world where you can park your car and be walking on a glacier in 20 minutes. There are a number of guided options (for a price) but if you are adventurous and careful, you can step on the ice and visit the quickly disappearing world of the glacier.Just be careful! Stay away from snow covered crevasses by taking the high road along the ice....."
"We did a great walk with a guide for 2 hours who explained all about the history of the glacier, about the landscape etc and got to walk in areas on the edge of the glacier that you can't do unless you are with a guide. Would definitely recommend a guided ice walk."
"We've been here before, but the wonder of the scenery and the experience is still there. Although expensive, taking the trip out to the Athabasca Glacier (about 1 1/2 hours) is one of those experiences one should do once in their lifetime. Seeing and walking around such a beauty of nature never ceases to amaze. The time on the ice seemed way too short. The views of course are absolutely breathtaking. One suggestion when going out on the ice - be wary of the glacier streams as little children do think it's solid ice and then find out they are up to their ankles in very icy cold water. But their excitement wasn't dampened by it - but only served to increase it."
We were fortunate to visit the glacier on a sunny clear day. The ice truck specially designed to drive on to the ice itself is an experience all on its own and you don't have to get off it once on the glacier if you don't wish to. I did though. It was about -11 when I was there but it was worth combatting the cold to walk on the glacier and look down the deep crevasses. I would recommend that you visit this attraction but wrap up well because it is extremely cold and when I was there extremely windy.
Took a bus and then an ice explorer vehicle to the glacier from the base.what an experience. We got out out onto the glacier and it was snowing. Surprisingly it was not unconfortably cold. We had a snowball fight with other travelers. The ice experience was about twenty minutes . Wish it could have longer. Great time.
"The tours were closed, but we could still park and hike a bit of the way to the glacier. It was a beautiful l site. The glaciers are very very impressive."
"The scenery is one awesome site after another., The glaciers the water color, the wildlife. Trip of a lifetime material."
"We traveled with Cosmos Tours from Calgary to Vancouver and this was one of our stops. You get on a bus with special tires to ride up on top of the glacier. There was a guide on the bus who gave information about the glacier. When you get off the bus, they give you a paper drinking cup because there is a spot where pure water comes out of the glacier that is cool and drinkable. The area you are permitted to walk on is clearly marked out. We had plenty of time to walk around and see the iceberg."
This is a must do if you are in the rockies. The whole attraction is very well run with buses running all the time. The tour guides are very informative and fun. Standing on the glacier was a real highlight. Highly recommended.
"Get up close and personal with a glacier!! Walk on it, drink the glacier ice melt. Takes time and money but well worth it."
We went on the glacier parkway and visited the glacier. It was so pretty. The guide was very informative and he made the trip interested. The food in the food center was very expensive. It is well worth your money to go on the glacier. Take a water bottle and get you some water. The water is so delicious.
Even if you only stop at the visitor center for a break and get some photos of the glacier this is a must do for anyone driving the ice fields parkway.If you have the time take a snow coach tour up onto the glacier itself and remember to take an empty bottle so that you can collect some glacial melt water to drink on your journey.
"There is parking at the foot of the glacier, followed by a fairly steep and loose gravel scree climb leading up to the glacier itself. Take a windcheater to wear when you get there as it is cold and windy at the foot of the glacier itself. Only accessible to people in reasonably good physical health."
"This is a must see along the Icefields Parkway. It’s a receding glacier, and so it’s a moderate climb to see it. My husband and I recommend for young adults to take Icewalks Tour for $60 so you can actually hike on the glacier with a guide. The hike lasts about 3 hours! For those who are more frail, you might want to take the Brewster bus up, and take a special people mover to the ice. This is cheaper, but it’s pretty gross with the diesel gases spewing everywhere on the glacier, and you only get 15 mins on the ice. It’s ironic that so many people take the Brewster tour up, only to learn about how the Glacier is receding now because of global warming."
"Thanks to previous reviewers we booked on the first tour on the Sunday of Labor Day weekend. Our guide /driver was Sami, a Japanese retired banker with infectious enthusiasm for his summer "" hobby"". He was interesting and informative, and a bundle of energy as he ran around on the ice ensuring that the 30 or so of us on his snow coach, young and old, were having the best experience ever. And we did. No other snow coach arrived for the 25 minutes we were on the glacier. He told us that by midday there would be 8 coaches parked at a time. It was amazing and well worth the early start."
Fantastic trip on to the glacier. Luke our guide was superb. The trucks are amazing and saw bighorn sheep on the way back down to the information centre. Fantastic to walk on the glacier.
"I have been coming to Athabasca Glacier twice a year for the last 15 years, and the glacier is getting shorter and shorter. The weather in this area is change rapidly so i'd suggest you bring at least a wind breaker even if it is a hot day - as it can, and have, dip below freezing without warning. Generally there are 3 ways to explore the glacier. 1. take the Icetour offered by Brewster, 2. Drive to the bottom of the glacier and hike up, 3. take a icewalk tour.1. The Brewster, in my opinion, is a must-do but it is expensive. It cost about $50/adult but i think the experience is great if you are first time there. This tour is about 1-1.5 hours long and you ride the huge wheel bus to the middle of the glacier where you spend about 15 mins there. The ""bus stop"" on the glacier is graded and flat with steams of fresh melt water surrounds the ""parking lot"". 2. The walk to the toe of the glacier is not hard but get steep for a bit. Please wear proper foot wear. I have seen people wearing flip-flops and thats just asking for trouble. The hike takes around 15 - 25 mins depending on how fit you are. Also, you ARE at 2,000 meter elevation (6,600ft) and air can get somewhat thin. Although un-noticable by healthy people, people with heart problems and breathing issues should take it easy. 3. Icewalk - i have never done it so i have no opinions.There is now a river running just in front of the glacier toe where it wasn't before. There used to be a walking bridge that can take you onto the ice but it is not cut off. However, if you cross the fencing and walk towards the left side of the glacier, you will see a wooden plank laying across the river and you can cross onto the ice. This is where the ice walk tours gain access onto the ice."
"What a wonderful trip. It's hard to pick out one hotel, restaurant, or attraction. Everything was breath-taking. The one attraction which really got to me was the Athabasca Glacier in Jasper National Park. We took the Snocoach tour bus onto the glacier. What a wonderful experience. The only sad part is to see how the glacier is melting away.It was amazing being on the glacier. Now is the time see it because in 25 years from now it might not be there. This trip is well worth taking and I highly recommend it. Dress warmly and enjoy every minute."
"Our tour was an exceptionally memorable one thanks to our Brewster Bus Tour Guide/Driver, James Chambers. A once in a lifetime experience visiting a 10,000+ year old glacier that feed to life into 3 of the largest rivers in Canada. We had opportunity to drink from the purest water in the world and laid eyes on trees some 500+ years old which looked like dwarfs. How the icefield creates its own wind. How the ice is sooo blue from all oxygen being squeezed out after the thousands of years of snow/ice pressure. I cannot emphasize enough how amazing the whole experience was. a MUST see."
We spend 2.5 HOURS driving there and then we walk on ice for 20 minutes. I don't see how anyone could like it. NOT WORTH IT.
"Being from British Columbia, we have hiked on glaciers before, so we didn't feel the need to participate in the Icewalk or the Brewster bus to go onto the Athabasca glacier. We parked our car at the lower parking lot (which was covered by glacier not long ago) and took the steep hike up to the toe of the glacier. We were wearing toques (Canadian for hat), gloves and wool coats to combat the chill wind but it was interesting to be in the path of the glacier. You get a better view of the whole glacier from the road or from the Icefields centre, but it's still fun to be right next to it (and see the markers where the glacier has receded from over the years). I would say the Brewster bus would be a fun thing to do with kids, or if you've never seen a glacier but otherwise the hike is good too."
"One of the main features along the Icefield Parkway between Jasper and Banff is the Athabasca Glacier, one of the most easily accessible glaciers anywhere. The huge Columbia icefield ""spawns"" several glaciers and the Athabasca glacier comes down towards the main road, making it very accessible to the public. The easiest but most expensive way of getting onto the glacier itself is by signing up for the bus and ""ice tractor"" trip. For two of us this cost more than $100 but is a worthwhile experience. You firstly go towards the glacier on a large bus, then transfer to a vehicle equipped with huge tires which can go onto the glacial ice itself. Once at the point they have to stop you have about 20-30 minutes out on the ice, also giving you a chance to put your hand into the icy water flowing in a few channels. Even in summer it is cold out on that ice so don't go in shorts or with no jacket! In the 40 years I have watched this glacier it has retreated about 400 meters (about 10 meters per year), just in case someone reading this doesn't believe in global warming!"
"The glacier is about 1h15mins from Jasper and 1h45mins from Lake Louise. So an ideal place to stop if you are driving between the 2, to stop and stretch your legs.There are 3 different ways of viewing the glacier1/ Parking at the base of the glacier and walking (on your own) around a cordoned off area. (Free)2/ Parking at the base of the glacier and taking an organised walking tour with a guide and a small groups of people. Looked to be between 10-153/ Parking at the visitor centre and taking a glaciermobile onto the glacier. Costs circa $48 each.We did the first option. However if we were more suitably attired then we would have liked to do the organised walk with the guide. The few times we crossed paths, they did sound like they were giving out some fantastic information. I would highly recommend bringing jumpers and jackets for this option.Even walking around on your own, you can read some fascinating history and take some great pictures. I'd stop here no matter how much time you have - its well worth it."
My husband and I throughly enjoyed the drive from Lake Louise to Jasper National Park. Absolutly beautiful mountain ranges and then the Icefields. It is well worth the expense and be sure to tell them if you are a member of AAA because you get a discount. We walked on the glacier and got some great pictures. The driver of the glacier bus gives a entertaining and educational talk.
"On our drive up the Columbia Icefields Parkway, we stopped at the Athabasca Glacier Visitor Center and purchased tickets to ride the huge glaciermobiles out onto the glacier. The Visitor Center has some interesting exhibits you can view while waiting for your glacier tour, as well as a nice gift shop. The ride out onto the Athabasca Glacier is amazing. The tires on the trucks are enormous and you get the sense of going where few have gone before. Once we arrived on the glacier, we were allowed to disembark and walk around, take pictures and just enjoy being in such an incredible environment.After returning to the Visitor Center, we crossed the road and walked to the dated signs showing where the glacier had been originally, and with each sign, you can see just how much global warming has affected it's size.The Columbia Icefields Parkway is an incredibly scenic and amazing drive, with fantastic views of the Canadian Rockies, glaciers, and more animals than we've seen anywhere, right alongside the road. Bring your camera and take lots of pictures!"
"It is an experience to walk on the glacier although the views are not great and you soon get cold when the wind is blowing, the drive out onto the glacier on the large ice bus is interesting.Interesting experience to do once but it is touristy and quite expensive."
"The trip on to the glacier was really interesting, though I believe I would have found the guided walks they do more interesting (being a geographer). The large ""Snomobiles"" take you slowly onto the glacier and you arrive at an area which is free of crevasses so you can walk on a small area. I found that this was maybe a bit too crowded with tourists, but I found it fascinating to experience the immense size of the glacial features. It is definitely worth a visit to find a little bit about how the rockies were formed."
