"We stopped to visit Sunwapta Falls while on the way back to Calgary from Jasper. This was a great location to not only see the falls but also to eat lunch. There are so many great places to stop along the icefield parkway so here are the high points for this location: reasonable parking/access, short walk on paved trails to a bridge across the falls, good photo opportunity, decent view up and down the river, your can take a longer hike if you wish, bathrooms."
"Just a short drive off the Icefields Parkway, this spot is a good chance to stretch your legs and take a bit of a hike in nature. The path is rough with rocks and routes, so sturdy footwear is a must. A good place to take out of country visitors."
"Sunwapta Falls are beautiful and look amazing and are a great spot for photographs.
They are a quick stop between Jasper - Lake Louise on the Icefield Parkway.
Beautiful Falls, worth stopping for."
"Make sure to hike the trail also to the lower falls, to espace the tourist crowd of the upper falls. It is definitely worth the walk."
Definitely glad we stopped to visit the falls. Very impressive and fast flowing. The car park gets very busy and there's toilets. You can do a hike but we just enjoyed the falls and took lots of photos
"Just stopped to see the falls and did not do the hikes. Easily located close to the highway and a short walk to the falls. I found the falls nothing to write home about, but the scenery was still nice. If you wanted to save time, you could skip these falls and do the Athabasca Falls instead (I found there was more to see and do in the short time we had available).Did not do any of the hikes so I can't comment on that part."
Visiting this fall is a no-brainer. It is conveniently located on the Icefield Parkway just about 50 km north of the Columbia Icefield Center. It is just a short hike from the parking lot. It is not that crowded (at least not when we visited). And the view of the waterfall and the deep canyon below is quite impressive.
We were glad we made the drive down to the falls which are at the midpoint approximately between Jasper and the glacier. They are an easy walk from the parking lot. There is plenty of parking.. we stopped at the initial overlooks and then chose to do the longer hike which we thoroughly enjoyed!
"Easy access form the highway, about midway from Jasper to the Columbia Icefields discovery centre, these falls are worth stopping by.
Good parking is available, amenities at hand, paved walkways, and gushing waterfalls. Really enjoyable stop"
Visiting the falls and canyon here are a must. It was a gorgeous day great trails the falls and Canyon are simply spectacular. You will have the opportunity to go on longer hike around if you wish or simply sit on the rocks along side the falls enjoy the beauty of nature.Awesome
We took this short hike to the Falls and small canyon. Offers awesome views and spectacular skyline shots. The trail to the falls is interspersed with tree roots on the ground so caution is advised.Does not take long to explore this area but is a must see.
"Fed by the Athabasca Glacier, Sunwapta Falls is a class 6 waterfall with a drop of 60 feet and swirling churning water, impressive even in late August and in the rain. Would like to have hiked down to the lower falls, but the rain had made the path slippery and we still had a long journey ahead, so saved it for next time. We found the place quite quiet, but maybe that was due to the rain! Directions: 50km from the Colombia Icefield if travelling North, and 23km South of the Athabasca Falls. The car park is about 500m from the Icefields Parkway, the Upper Falls only a short walk from the car park."
"Nature is great. The falls arent the most spectacular in the area but still pretty awesome. Of course the trees and mountains are awesome. Saw a lot of wildlife here. Deer, bear, elk, plus the cute little squirrels and chipmunks"
Sunwapta Falls is a nice place to visit but we didn't stay long. We found it didn't take long to see what we wanted to see there.
Very pleased to have visited this spectacular sight. Strong elemental feeling of the majesty of nature in the rushing water and how it has carved its way through the landscape. Relaxing tranquility amongst it all. Nice spot for a picnic too.
"Though not quite as elaborate and picturesque as Athabasca, Sunwapta is nevertheless a great sight not to miss if you have some spare time. The falls are very close to the parking lot, and the attraction was not nearly quite as busy as Athabasca when we visited. The height drop of the falls is amazing!For the absolute best pictures with your digital camera, figure out how to set a longer shutter speed. Between 0.25 to 0.5 second generally gives me the best results. Generally speaking, the slower the waterfalls, the longer shutter speed should be to give the nice soft effect of water movement. With very aggressive falls, shorten your shutter speed; in some cases where the flow is very aggressive, it will show up all white, so bear that in mind.Please kindly indicate if you found this review to be helpful as it will allow me to better focus my future efforts! Much appreciated - hope you have a great time and safe travels!"
"Quite a spectacular rush of water that really impressed my husband who is extremely hard to impress. There are two falls. We walked through the forest to the lower falls which are just as beautiful as the upper falls. This may not be so spectacular later in the summer when the volume of water might be lower. Don't climb the fences to get that photo! If you fall in, there is no way you will survive as a memorial at the lower falls will attest."
"We stopped here whilst travelling from Lake Louise to Jasper. There are a lot of trail options to explore if you have the time and energy but we just took the easiest and closest options. Great scenic views here from bridges and you can go down closer to the falls and the water. Definitely worth stopping for, good parking, lots of trees and mountain scenery in the background"
"So, so beautiful and amazing! Such a great attraction for families and all is as it is described and more!"
Definite must when travelling from Banff to Jasper. Just south of Jasper so it would be an easy few hour round trip including the walk from there. Busy place in the summer.
The whole area is spectacular! The falls are magnificant! Great photo opportunities so don't miss it if you are in the area. You need a light jacket even in August.
The first time we stopped couldn't find parking early in the day. Second visit on the way to Jasper from ice fields almost had the place to ourselves. Falls are right off parkway. Absolutely beautiful must see stop along theparway
Don't miss these falls right off the Ice Fields Parkway. The rushing water is amazing to see. It is definitely worth a stop for an hour or so.
"Loved this falls. Gushing waters and the beauty of Nature around the falls makes it special. Try to visit this attraction. By the way, Athabasca Falls is way better than this one."
What a great little spot located along the Icefields Parkway. The falls are absolutely breathtaking! Definitely stop and check them out!
"Great walking trails, great views of the falls. There's two falls, one that takes a short hike to get to. We were happy that we stopped here. Overall, maybe a 2-3 hour stop if hiking to the lower falls."
"This is a great spot to stop and it will only take 20 minutes out of your day. I would allocate at least 45 minutes. Stay longer if you want to stretch your legs with a a variety of walks. As with all venues in the park there is ample parking, restroom facilities, and places to sit. Also know the Ice-fields Parkway is a good place to see bears, especially in the Spring."
There are great walking trails and view points. Visitors can choose to do the easy walk on the top or go down to the bottom of the canyon. A great attraction to see. Don't miss it.
"A short trip off highway 93, way less traffic then Athabasca falls. We only toured the top falls, but you can take a longer hike further down the valley."
"Quite impressive as a Athabasca falls. Where quite cold and humide, be sure to get some warm clothes."
Great walking trails and excellent observation points. You can make this a quick stop or linger for the day and enjoy all of the trails. We found the park well organized and very clean.
This would be more impressive in the summer when the stream is running fully and the falls aren't frozen but it was still impressive to see. The walkways were not cleared however and to get to the bridge we had to go down a hill which was covered in snow so it was a bit difficult to get too. It will be really nice to visit in the summer when all the paths are cleared.
"You had to have been there, Pictures wont do the trick, nor can words. Hit the road and see this magnificent sight."
"Just behind the Sunwupta Falls Rocky Mountain Lodge. These falls are less visited, probably because signage to it is poor. But find the Lodge along the Icefields Parkway and ask. (While you are there, visit the good gift shop with restrooms.)Wonderful set of falls, easily accessible on a short walk from a new parking lot. Let's keep them a secret."
"Sunwapta Falls was the best stop along the Parkway on our visit to Jasper NP. I can't believe it's not the 1st on the list. The island right before the falls is breathtaking because the water is so heavy and strong, it's amazing how it doesn't get taken in by water every year. We went in mid-November 2016 when the first snow was just starting, right between winter & fall. The snow was perfect heavy flakes falling and it makes for a beautiful winter scene. There are picnic table and trails to take, you could easily spend an afternoon at Sunwapta."
Short walk from the small parking lot for views of the falls. Walk down the short trail to the small bridge for pics. There is a few picnic tables to sit.
"Just OK by the Rockies standard, but would have been a 4-star sight in other context. The Rockies are just so full of beautiful lakes, rivers, waterfalls and rock formations that this appears a little too ordinary in comparison."
"It was a short walk from the resort to the falls, If you are staying at Sunwapta resort, definitely give this a try, we took a few pictures and they turned amazing."
"When driving in Jasper National Park, stick to the speed limits. We saw radar guns and RCMP pulling cars over. Not a pleasant feeling for a visitor to encounter. The Falls and canyon do warrant a stop though. Don't just drive through and miss this little beauty."
"In our opinion, these falls are better than those at Athabasca and, for some reason, the coach tours seem to avoid stopping here. Consequently, the experience is much calmer and it is possible to really enjoy the rushing waters. We did the 1.6 kilometre hike through the woods to the lower falls and it was well worth the effort. As well as it being a very pleasant, and relatively easy walk, the lower falls are probably even more spectacular. We thoroughly enjoyed our visit to this attraction."
The upper fall is very closed to parking lot but you should also go to lower. The lower falls are a series of three water falls. It is worth to walk few km to visit.
It took a 5 mins from the parking lot... This is just for the top of the falls... There is a trail that goes to the bottem of the falls ...
"You can drive in very close to the Sunwapta Falls, so access is very easy for everyone. The falls themselves are good but after having just come from Athabasca they were not quite as impressive. We didn't do any further hiking so it's entirely possible there were better views elsewhere in the canyon."
Couldn't miss this so close to the lodge of the same name. It had started to snow overnight so the air was clear and fresh.These falls are a mighty work of nature - brilliant to view and listen to the sound of the water.Not to be missed.....
Absolutely amazing views of a very powerful waterfall. Lots of space to view the falls from different angles.
"A person begins to run out of superlatives after a while... I would recommend going and seeing this ""attraction"" (still have trouble with that concept - an attraction? really?)"
A very pleasant spot with the falls a very short walk from the parking lot. Not much more than a 5 minute stop if you just want to see the falls
Very easy to park and wander to the top falls. Seems the majority of people only see these and don't bother to find the path that leads down to the river below. Personally I think the falls are better lower down and although fairly steep to return felt it was worth the extra effort.
It's a short hike from the trailhead. The falls and the mountain scenery are impressive. Quite a lot of majestic power.
Visited late evening and there were hardly any people. It is about 2 min walk from car parking and you get to see the beautiful falls. Hardly took 15-20 mins to see this place.
"Count on about 20-30 minutes for your visit. The falls here are somewhat surprising, although a little difficult to view/photograph
The river carves its way through a slot in the rocks, ending in a very forceful spout fall. The power of nature is impressive!"
"Anytime you have a chance to see waterfalls, get out of the car and move. You won't be disappointed. Spectacular."
A quick or long stop depending on the time you have. The upper falls are great and if you have enough time and want to get away from the crowds travel down to the lower falls. Well worth the stop if you have 10 minutes or an hour.
Loved this place! It is just off the main road. The trails were well marked and walkable. It did get a little slippery at places but not difficult. There was enough parking. the views were mind-blowing!
"We stopped at Sunwapta Falls last week on our trip along the famous Icefields Parkway. The falls are located just a short drive from the main road, and there is ample parking. The falls are beautiful to look at from the various viewing points, and the huge finger slab of rock remaining at the centre as the river rushes past adds to the view. A lot of recent rain had maximised the water flow through the falls on our visit.Back at the main road, there is a brilliant cafe-deli and gift shop, selling some really great souvenirs. The deli serves some awesome pineapple muffins.Very highly recommended for a stop off along the Parkway. If you drive the route, then don't miss this place !"
This is a really cool place. Yes it does get crowded. The secret is there are lower falls. And hardly anyone walks to them. Make sure you do. The upper falls are great. That is where all the crowds go. Look for the signage taking you to the lower falls. The trail is very nice and walkable. Wide. The lower falls are equally nice. The scenery is beautiful. It probably took us an hour to walk round trip to the lower falls. We stop alot and take pictures. This is really worth your time to do both the upper and the lower falls. Believe me the lower falls are going to be less crowded and will provide you with additional great views of the canyon. This is a must stop!! I would have to say I enjoyed these falls more than Athabasca. Both beautiful in their own way.
"Could watch all day as the water rushes through under the bridge. Very cool, wish we would have had time to do the hike to the lower falls."
Viewed the falls during a downpour and it was still lovely. Plenty of parking. Nice hiking trails. Pathway to falls was very slippery when wet.
"These falls are spectacular - the upper one next to the car park looks great, but do yourself the favor and aim for the lower falls they are even better."
"Easy woodlands trail to the lower falls, about 1-2 hour hike, rapids and falls at the termination. There is an overlook to the upper falls close to the parking lot, and it looks like most people just stopped there. We were glad to get away from that crowd. The lower falls trail was not crowded, and was more interesting. 2 kilometers each way going to end of the trail. Somewhat less just reach the top of the falls."
I actually found these to be nicer than the athabasca falls. Worth the short walk to see both the lower and the upper falls.
"Not quite as impressive as the Athabasca Falls, however with easy parking and a short walk it is certainly worth the time to stop and see this attraction."
"The falls are very nice but do not compare at all to the Athabasca
Falls which are a short distance away. Try a comparative analysis between the two!"
The falls here were daunting and inspiring. The sheer volume of water was unbelievable and one of the great wonders of nature. Access to the viewpoint was close to the parking lot and then there were some different trail options. We took the shorter trail to the lower falls which was fairly easy to do and provided sims great views. Probably the best attraction in Jasper.
"If you want a stop on your Icefields Parkway drive that isn't packed to the rafters with coaches and tourists, Sunwapta Falls is the place for you. We pulled in at a time where you would expect this place to be full, yet there was virtually nobody there.The falls are extremely impressive and powerful. Perhaps not so much as Athabasca, but it has a more natural allure. It's very close to the car park, you can almost see the falls from the car it's so close.I would say one thing though, they have some slippery rocks there (not from being wet, just from a sheer face) and my wife slipped and fell. It was fine, she was never in danger, but do be careful."
Beautiful scenery and powerful. A very relaxing time. Enjoy and take your time. Nature at its best. A good hiking area.
Very diverse and powerful scenery. Take as long as you like to soak up the energy. Very high on the to do list.
"Amazing Falls. If you are up in the Jasper area, you need to see this. It is a really nice hike to the falls. Give yourselves enough time. We made the mistake of going left first and there is not a great view of the falls. Go right and enjoy the beautiness."
Stopped for a picnic lunch. Absolutely wonderful site to visit.As a geography teacher it was amazing to see the water at work so closely.Be careful walking down to some of the viewpoints as the slope is tricky if you have any mobility issues. Long drop toilets - reminds me of being on exercise on Salisbury plain!
"This was a beautiful stop on our trip to Jasper. The falls are amazing, with massive volumes of water gushing over the rocks. There are both upper and lower falls. The upper falls are more easily viewable, with a close-up look-out area as well as stunning views from the bridge. The paths are well-kept, although the rocks can be a little slippery---however, there are fences to prevent you from sliding anywhere unsafe! If you walk around down the path to the right, you can walk down the trail and view the lower falls as well. There are lots of safety fences, although some tourists chose to stand right on the rocks---DO NOT DO THIS!!! YOU CAN SEE PERFECTLY FINE FROM THE SAFE LOOK-OUTS! There is also a picnic area and ample parking."
"The walk followed the river very closely yet a person felt very safe, even though you are up close. A must visit."
An ideal place for a stop and walk along the river. The top of the falls is only a hundred yards from the car park but great views of the river as it thunders through the canyon. A peaceful walk through the trees to the lower falls offers some stunning views. Athabasca falls are a few miles towards Jasper. For photographic opportunities Sunwapta is better and less crowded. Athabasca however provides a better geological understanding. If you have time do both
"This is one of those stops where its not a long walk but it's worth the time to stop and take a peek. These falls are located near the parking lot with tons of viewing areas where you can move around to see the falls from different angles. Sunwapta falls are less crowed, less improved, more natural and just amazing in their own way :-) Stay a while in the bridge and lose yourself as you are mesmerized by the sight of the falls and the great roaring of raw nature! If you want, you can have a snack in the picnic area!"
it was very pretty but it was slippery and muddy and steep. otherwise a great photo opportunity and plenty of parking. it is also very easy to get from the lot to the falls and offers a bunch of different view points
We made a quick stop here on our way to the Columbia Icefield. I never get tired of waterfalls and the thunder of their waters. The scenery is beautiful and it is easy to get to with young children (my son is 2 1/2). Great way to stretch your legs!
"Great view of the upper falls in only a minute walk from your car. If you want a bit of exercise you can hike a mile of so down to the lower falls and pool at the bottom. It's a very nice walk and a chance to stretch your legs along the icefield parkway. The lower falls is more a series of many falls that you can walk along and get up close to. If you are in a rush and trying to do the icefield parkway in one day, make sure you at least stop at the upper falls. We weren't a in a rush and my 70 year old parents were able to make it to and from the lower falls in 1.5 hours or so."
"You would think you would get tired of seeing beautiful waterfalls, but you don't!!! This is well worth the stop! Turbulent waters pass over waterfalls dropping down into deep canyons. These sights renew the spirit! Well maintained trails with many scenic stops along the way."
"Enjoyed this waterfall more than Athabasca Falls. Less crowded. Easy walk, different levels to view. Scenery amazing!"
"The upper falls are a very short hike from a nearby parking lot and are gorgeous. Take the short hike to the lower falls as well, which are a series of three separate falls. It is a moderate hike and well worth the effort. It is well fenced along the way also. Easy to do and to enjoy the solitude and the views along the river. Definitely worth it!"
"A short walk takes you to these lovely falls, which seemed far less busy than the nearby Athabasca Falls. The 2km walk to the lower falls followed a lovely trail and was well worthwhile."
"I arrived at Sunwapta Falls and Canyon on a sunny day. There are two falls: upper and lower. The upper falls are easy to access. There is a short hike to the lower falls; be careful if the rocks are slippery. The falls are beautiful, with a scenic mountain backdrop. If you videotape the falls, make sure you turn on the audio with your camera because the sound of the water cascading down the canyon sounds awesome!"
"Saw wildlife climbing the steep cliffs. This is an amazing location worth stopping to have a look, but best views are unfortunately requiring a purchased ticket unless you have mountain climbing skills."
"The river originates from the Athabasca Glacier, and the Falls are lovely.
They flow under a bridge from which you can take pictures on both sides., and there are several hilly trails you walk along side the river."
"Great bang for your buck. These falls are almost visible from the parking lot, and accessible via a somewhat steep almost paved trail. Several vantage points along the stream before and after the falls (well fenced)."
The Upper falls are easy to get to from the roadway. The power of the water and the geology created over a long period of time is well worth seeing. It is a very pleasant walk to the lower falls and when we were there we had the pathway and the falls to ourselves. It was peaceful.
The water is stunning. Such a beautiful color. The music of the falls is mesmerizing. Gentle walk. Most can do it. Not far off the road or from the parking lot.
"A worthwhile walk (very short): the river growls down into dramatic cracks in the rocks with enormous power. We were there just after the rain, and the sight of the falls was almost frightening. Magnificent."
It is easy access. Not much hike to see it all. It is nice but not extrordinary. You just spend 1/2 hour to go around.
"This beautiful waterfall is a must see. The cobalt blue water cascading into the gorge, roaring it's way into the canyon. It's a geologic a stunner, the bowls carved by water spun boulders are amazing to see. It's a little slippery on well worn rock, so be aware and ensure you wear good walking shoes. NOT flip flops. Watch for tree roots, and stay safe to enjoy this beautiful waterfall."
Easy access. One of several fine waterfalls in Jasper region. Free. Don't pass it by when you drive through.
100m walk from the parking lot to see the falls. Or you can hike around (there is a 6km one and a 1.5km) one. Not many people at this time so parking wasn't a problem.
"Swollen with melting snow, the whole river flows through a very narrow gorge with immense force. Wow! You can hike, picnic, or just relax in a pine-shaded forest, or take long hikes to the Lower Falls. Enjoy a meal at the nearby Sunwapta Falls Lodge and be on your way refreshed."
Waterfall is located in Jasper NAT Park (Hway 93) on way to Columbia Ice fields from Jasper. Easy access from road and short walk from parking area. Also no entrance fee. Not as spectacular as Altabasca Falls.
"Definitely pay this place a visit, it's a quick stop and well worth it! The falls are beautiful as is the canyon leading away from them. There are also hiking trails in the area that are not too difficult and offer nice views of the river."
"This place is easy to get to from the parking lot. We didn't hike here, we just stopped to take some photos. This is one of those places I see a lot of photos of in the travel brochures and photo shops around town. It looks like Horseshoe Bend in AZ kind of but with faster running water that then falls into the waterfall. If you have a wide angle and hike down a path after you go over the bridge on the left side, you can try to capture it all."
"Easy access to several key viewpoints of these beautiful falls, try to get there in between bus loads of people!"
"Although not as magnificent as the Athabasca Falls (my family's humble opinion), Sunwapta is beautiful in its own way and still deserves a visit. It is a short hike down the path from the parking lot to a bridge where you can view the water surging down a narrow canyon. There is another (lower) falls just a short walk from the bridge. Some folks were hiking down a hill from the parking lot to an area where an island divides the river before the water rushes down the falls. Be careful as there are rocks that have very slippery surface. Several elderly folks nearly took a tumble."
There are some nice falls fairly close to the parking lot and also a nice walk down a gentle slope for about 2.5km to another water fall. this took us about 2 hours in total and on a nice day was a pleasant walk
"The main upper falls are an easy walk from the car park which is busy with tourist buses.
The falls are a turrent of plunging water not far from the Iceland Parkway.
The lower falls are aprox 2km hike from the carpark."
"Located on the parkway a 30 min. drive from the town of Jasper .This is a must see!!The power & splender of nature ,the milky coloured glacier water as it crashes & froths through the canyon.A large rock formation stands as a sentinel in the middle before the first fall,so impressive. The bridge lookout is easy to reach on foot and has fantastic views from each side. great spot for photos with the mountains & forest as backdrop for the falls. Parking is free ,room for large vehicles,and an easy stop at the lodge for a snack or beverages."
"It is on the way from Icefield Center to Jasper. A nice stop to extend your legs, take fresh air and enjoy the view."
Sunwapta Falls isn't far off the Icefields Parkway (between Jasper and Banff). It's definitely worth the short drive in to take a walk around the falls. We loved the hike to the lower falls as well. Very pretty. We also made use of the picnic tables near the parking area; it was really nice to have dinner in such peaceful surroundings with the sound of rushing water as background noise.
"Another stunning, fast flowing waterfall. There are so many amazing waterfalls in this vicinity that are easy to get to, park up and wonder!"
The falls are a short drive from Jasper and def worth a stop if you are in Jasper. Beautiful falls with lots of great pic opportunities.
"Called in for a second visit during a tour through the Rockies, previously visited in 1996 nothing had changed the falls were just as powerful and mesmerizing this year as they were 19 years previously, we will take these memories back to Scotland and share them with friends who aspire to tour as we did.Awesome Canada"
planned stop but a wonderful surprise! not very crowded. easy access. great views. nice little waterfalls. def worth a stop.
"Pretty falls, bad mosquitos! Take spray. Peaceful and great pictures. Lots of bears scratches on trees but didn't see them on trail. I heard lots of birds and something moving I woods but it never got close. Not too many people and parking was available. I went later in the day."
"I visited the falls in October 2015 - they were not at their peak but still the walk around the falls was peaceful and the falls impressive.These are not Niagara Falls or Selfoss falls (in Iceland) big, but the scenery around them is beautiful and the walk from car park around the falls is easy for all abilities (be careful of a few uneven bits).I can imagine they could be stunning at their peak."
"Often neglected by tourists, therefore rather quiet. Beautiful falls and canyon. Good cafe at the turn off."
These were the first falls we visited on our Jasper - Banff adventure. Easy to reach and easy to see. You can walk further for different views and there are trials to follow as well. A fitting start to our jaw dropping trip along the Icefield.
We stopped here on the way back to Banff from Jasper. We ended up staying here way longer than we had planned on account of the sheer beauty and the lovely walk around the falls and canyons. I loved taking the time to enjoy the swirling waters and gorgeous scenery. Be sure to make time for this very accessible roadside attraction!
"Just off of the Icefield Parkway a must visit if you are doing this drive. Spectacular waterfalls along the canyon, a relatively short walk to the lower falls and well worth doing."
"My husband and I, with 51 other seniors were traveling around the Canadian Rockies and this was one of our quick stops. It was another amazing beautiful falls and we got lots of great pictures. Don't ask which one we loved the best. They were all the very best but some were bigger than others. We had gorgeous weather for our tour and Mike MacCormack with Brewster Tours did a fantastic job showing us all the sights. He is quite knowledgeable with regards to Canada and all the various attractions as well as restaurants. He is a gem. Ask for Mike when traveling the Rockies and he will definitely make your trip worthwhile. We have seen it all and then some."
A very good and accessible waterfall close to the lodge. We liked it as much as Athabaska Falls. It's just o a smaller scale.
We stayed in the Lodge at the Falls so it was only a short walk. But what a sight at the end of the walk.The Rockies are full of waterfalls and Sunwapta is well uo there. Worth the detour for any traveller.
"You get two waterfalls to enjoy and admire at this stop. It is a quick stop and easy trail while enjoying your drive through the parks. Regardless of the weather, you will enjoy it."
"Sunwapta is one of several waterfalls along the Icefields Parkway. There is a short, paved walkway to the canyon and falls which gives easy access to everyone. It is one of several popular stops for both cars and tour buses so it can get quite busy but there is plenty of room for all and lots of photo opportunities. Yet another very scenic spot and Mother Nature at her finest. Definitely worth the stop."
Mindblowing work of nature. The scenery is tooooo good! must see. It is too gorgeous! Absolutely stunning
Photographers delight. Short walk and the falls are just beautiful. Surroundings take your breath away!
"We enjoyed very much the short walk
The place is well organized and the entrance is free of charge
Highly recommended for a walk in the nature"
"These falls are very close to Athabasca Falls, so it's worth seeing both if you have the time. These falls offer an easy hike down to the bottom to take in the view from all angles. The falls were very impressive this year. I've seen them several times, but this year, they were very strong."
Allow 45 minutes to walk the path to Sunwapta Falls and the canyon. The rush of water is lovely. Take time to stop at the viewing areas and enjoy the magnificence of nature at its best.
"The upper falls is view-able without too much effort, the lower falls will require some walking. The path is through the forest and not very difficult. The smell of pine and peaceful sights along the way more than compensate for the length of the walk. About half way down the path is a large rock, in case someone needs to rest."
"We were staying literally up the road at the Sunwapta Rocky Mountain Lodge. The upper falls are good but the lower are more impressive. Upper are right near the carpark. It was lovely walk to the lower falls (not really a true hike, if I can do it, most people can). Definitely quieter than Athabasca."
"As many of the other reviews already state: These falls are worth visiting and it is much quieter than the Athabasca falls (a little headsup: I am pretty sure that some of the pictures taken and posted here were actually taken at the Athabasca falls).The hike down to the falls is easy, however: Be careful, some of the stones are washed out that much, that it is very slippery in some parts."
"There are loads of waterfalls all through the Banff, Lake Louise and Jasper areas but the Sunwapta on the ice field Parkway is one of the better ones not to be missed"
"I always prefer quieter attractions if possible, and having fled in horror from the mobbed showpiece Columbia Icefields, we sought the relative solitude of these beautiful waterfalls. The upper falls are busy, being just a few steps from the car park, but the lower ones, just as impressive require an easy trail walk of 10-15 minutes each way, and consequently only a handful of visitors at any one time. Visit these ones first before moving on to Athabasca to be further amazed by natures wonders!"
"The upper falls near the parking lot were fine,however, if you have the energy to walk 2km to the lower falls, you will be rewarded with beauty and solitude from the tourists wandering around the upper falls. There are three falls in the lower section and what a wonderful place to bring your lunch, sit and relax.The trail to the lower falls is well groomed."
Stop at the falls! There is no hike or anything but it really is on the way to Jasper and it is beautiful and worth the stop! Beautiful pictures to take!
"The tiny falls is all covered with wonders.Water pours down the falls,beyond it,potholes and other rock formations catches your eyes."
I've been to this place in Aug 2015; it might be a good stop en route to stretch off muscles and ease the mind under the noise of falling water.
"After visiting the Athabasca Falls, this is comparatively much smaller, but it does not make it less spectacular!There were quite a few cars already when we arrived, so, the best I could manage was a quick photo stop, but it was interesting and pretty (in a smaller scale). Do stop here if you can find parking."
"Sunwapta Falls and Canyon is about 30 minutes drive from Columbia Icefield Visitor Center, and a short drive off the Icefield Parkway. When you get to the falls, you can see a couple of waterfalls of the Sunwapta River. The one most people see is the upper falls as access is easy. The lower falls are a short distance away.The Indian word Sunwapta means turbulent waters, and this is what you see here, especially during spring time. For me these falls are very relaxing, with the island before the upper falls, and the deep canyon you can watch from high above. People tend to compare between Sunwapta and Athabasca Falls, because they are almost next to each other (15 minutes drive), but I think each one has something else to offer. The only thing I can suggest is to visit Sunwapta first."
"We stopped here on our way down to Calgary. The trail starts about 100 m from the road, and is paved and easy to manage. The falls themselves are not quite as impressive as Athabasca, but this is still definitely a sight worth seeing."
"Yeh ok it's smaller than Athabasca so maybe visit Sunwapta first, enjoy the hike and experience the spray from the tumbling white water. We loved it. Each one of these falls and canyons has a rock formation that is its own identity within geology and they are all worthy of a visit and discussion."
"I liked Sunwapta Falls better than Athabasca. The island in the middle right before the falls makes the falls look more interesting. This is a short walk from the parking lot, so don't miss it!"
"The Sunwapata Falls has four tiers in a 2Km-ish hike, as people have said they're not as large as the Athabasca Falls, but each tier (step) is unique and beautiful. We loved hiking this easy trail to see them all. We saw people from all walks of life, from parents with newborns to 60-somethings. Anyone can handle this trail to see all the steps of this understated fall."
"The falls were gushing while I was there, and you can get close to them, but they're small potatoes compared to other sites in th Banff and Jasper parks. It's only 1km off highway 93, so access is easy. Stop if you've got a few min to spare, but don't worry if you skip."
Our tour guide said we wouldn't find the Sunwapta Falls as good as Athabasca but we definitely thought both sets of Falls were well worth seeing. Also very powerful and you get a great view from the various viewpoints and bridge. A little slippery to get to some of the viewpoints but worth making your way around.
"The Icefields Parkway first stop was great.
The access to the falls and canyon is very easy from the close parking.
It was really a beautiful stop worth the time.
The mix of falls and canyon was nice compared to other ""falls-only"" places ;)"
The same type of marvellous water scouring and scenery as Athabasca down the hwy but this one has a upper and lower falls which involves an enjoyable nature hike of a km or so. Wonderful camera shot available. Also a popular tourist stop just down the road past the Sunwapta Lodge. Another must see if you're there to enjoy the scenery.
"There are several ""must stop"" areas along the Icefields Parkway, and this is certainly one of them. Be sure to walk all around the area on the paved trails, because the view changes as you go along."
A nice little trail leads to these falls with several viewpoints including from above. Well worth the stop and short walk around.
"Maybe not quite as spectacular as Athabasca falls but definitely nothing to sneeze about. Being that it's pretty close to the road & doesn't take that long to view, why miss it?"
Well worth a visit and just off the main highway. A peaceful walk through the woods takes you to the upper falls. Continue onto the lower falls where you will find places to sit and watch the roaring water. Highly recommend it.
"An easy access from the highway and quite accessible. Beautiful example of nature at its finest with the glacial river, the falls themselves and the erosion of the rock in the canyon. A serene place to spend an hour or so. Worth the drive all on it's own."
"Quite similar to Athabasca, but smaller. Still worth to see if you in a neighbourhood as you need about 10 minutes to see them."
"The falls can get crowded but this is a great stop along the way. Plus, the path is well paved so you can take a stroller if you are travelling with a baby - it is a very short walk from the parking lot."
"Though we had not listed Sunwapta in our list of MUST DOS during our family's Trans Canada Road trip from Toronto to the Rockies and back, while returning to Calgary from Jasper and after having visited Athabasca, we found we had some tome to make a quick visit to Sunwapta.Lucky we decided in its favour. Though it may not have been as high as its neighbour, the roar of the ""turbulent"" river (Stoney Indian original word for Sunwapta) which goes over four falls and though a narrow canyon, made us take notice. We were quite enthralled, the surrounding scenery also being quite spectacular. We crossed the bridge to view the lower three falls which roared through the narrow, high walled limestone canyon. A little walk along the edge of the canyon was also rewarding for the unique views we got. The advantage is its is closeness to the main Jasper Calgary Highway and the VERY SHORT WALK to the falls from the parking lot,which we found large enough for the thin crowd there.While waking along the trail, we also noticed some of the stones were blue in colour, something quite unexpected. I don't know how the colour had com about but it was really very interesting!!!On the way out, we were also fortunate to glimpse a herd of white mountain goats grazing on the hillside, their coats almost merging with the white of the surrounding rock. In fact it is quite likely we would have missed this fantastic sight had it not been for the crowd gathered on the road to click their pictures!!Being a photographer, I made a dash up the hillside to get some close ups of these shaggy beasts till one of them, perhaps an alpha male, turned his attention on me and gave me an extremely threatening look, as if to say ""No further,buddy"". I beat a hasty retreat, much to the merriment of my grandchildren and the crowd!!Our Sunwapta sojourn had been an unqualified success!!"
Upper Sunwapta Falls are just a short walk from the car park and are very spectacular and a must visit. Please don't leave after seeing the upper falls. Take the 1.3km walk down to the Lower Falls. The views along the way are fantastic and you will be rewarded with more spectacular falls.
Another place that is well worth the stop. After all the awesome places that we have already seen this was another worthy place to see.
"Great waterfall with impressive views. Easy access with very short, gentle walk from parking lot. Not as impressive or as large as nearby Athabasca Falls or Maligne Canyon. So if you can only visit one, skip Sunwapta Falls. But, this is worth a stop to enjoy the natural beauty."
Another nice falls.. They are not as impressive as Athabasca falls but nice to see. They are only a few minutes off the highway and well signposted.
"54 km south of Jasper and well marked out from the road.Car park is just a minute walk from the falls so easy to access.There is a bridge across the narrow gorge and viewing points on either side. The river falls into a gorge which isn't accessible.In comparison to the Athabasca falls there are not as many viewing points but I think its still worth a visit especially as its so easy to get too.We drove from Jasper to the Icefield centre for our glacier tour at 5.00 pm and on the way stopped at the Athabasca, Sunwapta and Tangle falls on the way down."
"My wife and I first saw Sunwapta Falls on our trip up the Icefields Parkway to Jasper. We had not heard much about it, but decided to check it out. Well, we were so glad we did. The beauty of the waters as it pours over the falls crashing down and billowing up in clouds of mist is a sight to see. Seeing the lone pillar of rock that has survived the onset of the falls for years is an encouragement. From the sheer volume of water that pours over the falls each second to the deafening roar of the same, this is a place you must come and be in awe of the power of nature in action. If you are going on the Icefields Parkway near Jasper or staying in the area, you owe it to yourself to come experience Sunwupta Falls. You will be glad you did."
This wasn't as stunning a fall as Athabasca or as cool a canyon as Mistaya. It is easy to get to. Be careful though the rocks at the viewpoint are slick and several people fell while we were there.
"As waterfalls go these were not too impressive but still a nice places to stop, have coffee at the resort and then a five min walk down the road to the falls or can drive if feeling lazy"
This waterfall is in a narrow gorge and shows the intense force of water as it churns through. The force is intimidating. It was difficult to get good photos but if you used a selfie stick it could be possible.
"The bridge that goes across the upper falls provides the best scenic views. This is a must stop on the Icefields Parkway which is approx. 60 Km south of Jasper. To hear and feel the force of the raging water as it cascades down the canyon was an experience. Although the bridge that goes across the upper falls provides some great scenery, make sure you walk that little bit extra to the lower falls as you won't be disappointed. There are lots of barriers to ensure visitors safety without obstructing the views. This is one of a couple off waterfalls in the region and certainly worthy of a visit."
"Sunwapta is one of the major water falls along the spectacular Icefields Parkway. It is located about 55 Km south of Jasper townsite. Access to the falls is easy, parking may be busy during the summer periods, but early mornings are pretty quiet. The volume of water varies according to the season, snow melt, and rainfall. In late May and June, the levels are at their best and the noise of the tumbling water is amazing. The walkways are fully fenced and very safe for all family members."
"Sunwapta Falls is a very pretty waterfall — actually two waterfalls — close to Jasper. The walk to the upper falls is easy, and once you reach the falls there are several vantage points to admire the view and take photos. There is also a lower falls, but we only had 45 minutes to visit and didn’t have time to see that one. Worth a visit if you like waterfalls!"
"The initial falls are nice but if you want to see something better, take the walk to the lower falls, it is not too steep and the walk near the river is worth it. The lower falls are better than the upper falls in my opinion"
"This was pleasant but if you go around to the right and down past bridge to lower falls. It's a really pleasant walk but it would have been nicer if I'd done it with someone. This was my first hike here and I was on my own, no bear spray and knew nothing about them so I was pretty scared ha! Which looking back now is quite funny, anyway thought still stands."
"It's not a bad waterfall, but its really not worth the mosquito bites. We saw better waterfalls on the side of the road on the way here. There's like 100 waterfalls around here, this is the only one thats a mosquito breeding ground. Everyone who came off the path warned us and we were dumb enough not to listen. If you go make sure to bathe in bug spray first."
"We have been to Jasper Park a number of times, but this year was our first visit to Sunwapa. Well worth the 45-60 min. drive from Jasper."
There are a couple of these types of falls associated with a canyon. Each has its own charm and worth the walk and visit. If you are in the area you are crazy not to have a look
This was beautiful! The walk wasn't too hilly and the scenery was wonderful. We walked to the lower falls and had the place to ourselves. Amazing to see the power of the water to carve out the rock. This is a great stop along the Icefields parkway!
"A must stop on Icefields Parkway to experience this wonderful waterfall, hear and feel the raging water and the magnificent scenery."
Sunwapta isn't about 50 km south on Hwy 93 from the Jasper townsite. Nice drive on clear roads. The parking lot is ploughed so that is good. The trail s bit icy in patches so be careful. The canyon is quite deep with steep faces. Some good geological formations here if you are into that. Good ice formations with jade colored water in the pools so that is quite pretty. Bring snacks and water as there are no services here and no cell coverage. We had a beautiful day so it was very pleasant out with no wind. Recommend checking it out if you are visiting Jasper.
"An attraction not to be missed when visiting Jasper National Park. Most visitors just see the main waterfall of Sunwapta, but little known, there are a few more falls downstream of the main drop. The trek down to these falls is just a short distance walk. Sturdy shoes are recommended though. Summer is best to see the powerful rush of the water and feel the spray when the water plunges onto the valley bottom."
"Located along Icefield Parkway, the trail from the parking lot to the upper falls is well-paved and fenced. The falls is formed by the Sunwapta River, which over time, carved the limestone rocks into a deep gorge with water plunging down to a depth of about 18.5 metres.The bridge that goes across the upper falls provide the most scenery view, especially with the tiny island of trees behind, which split the Sunwapta River into two before dropping into the deep gorge.For the more adventurous, the trail extends further along the canyon and forest to the lower falls."
Takakkaw Falls were taller but Sunwapta Falls have much more interesting geological features and raging white water. The beautiful coloured sedimentary rock layers that have been folded and eroded by the water are so complex and powerful. Access to the initial falls area is fairly easy but further on you need to negotiate steps so those with mobility issues might not get to see the whole area. Sunwapta Falls was probably my favourite stop on the Icefields Parkway. I'd allow up to an hour here to really take your time and do it justice to explore the area. A must do stop.
Short distance from H-93 to a designated car park and a short stroll through the trees brings you to a lovely set of waterfalls. Nice bridge right over the flow of water gives good opportunities for photos and there are quite a few hiking trails that lead off (2.4 kms to lower falls) or off up the hill but the view of the canyon does tend to disappear. There are lots of barriers to ensure visitors safety but you can still get unobstructed views and close to the thunderous water.We spend about half an hour crawling all over the different viewpoints and have to admit that this was rather spectacular and if not the best in the region (I think that mantle goes to Athabasca Falls) they are certainly worthy of a visit.
Beautiful glacial waterfall - if you have time there's a 2km trail that follows the sunwapta river to its lower falls.
Great place for short hike. Many photo opportunities. Chance to see the waterfall from any different angles. Well worth to visit. Free car park.
"Along the way to Jasper, not far away from Columbia Ice Field, you can visit beautiful Sunwapta falls. You can walk there from parking lot as it is easy accessible, however consider runners and not flip flops, still it is walking either the stairs or dirt mixed with gravel and run with tree roots on top of it. You can trip if you do not pay attention. Therefore, watch for your children if they are used to run around. It will take you to drive there from main road not even 5 minutes. Surely it is short drive. Falls itself will take about 20-30 minutes with leisure walking."
"Beautiful mountain setting, Sunwapta Falls are amazing. Walking distance from the parking lot to the Falls is very short, about 5 minutes. Liked that this is as nature should be, you can view the Falls without paying or being on a guided tour."
Stop for a coffee and sandwich at the Sunwapta Resort and do the short walk (or drive) to Sunwapta Falls. The water and carved rock are spectacular.
The roaring falls are amazing and the best spot to view them is on the crossing bridge. We spent awhile just admiring the rushing water and taking photos. I highly recommend this stop!
"This is a worth a stop. We stayed at the Sunwapta Falls resort onour way up to the Columbian Icefields. The Falls are a fewminutes from the resort. The resort itself is right off the highway, with spectacular mountain views. I would recommend staying atthe Sunwapta Falls resort for a night or two. Some of the cabinshave fireplaces and they will come at your request and start the wood fireplace. Its lovely and toasty on a cool fall night. They are only open seasonally and close after Thanksgiving. They have a restaurant and souvenir shop. I would highly recommend staying at this resort."
The views are beautiful and it is a short (in comparison) walk with little incline to see these views.
"the contrast in all the waterfalls and canyons in the Rockies makes this one a must see. not a difficult walk, few tourists and beautiful surroundings. visited en route from banff to jasper and definitely added to the quality of the day."
It is a tasteful question. As many people I preferred Athabasca Falls. It does not however mean that the fall Sunwapta is not worth stopping there. The site is also very interesting. The only problem in fact is the time which you arrange to visit the region: choices difficult to make.
My teenage son preferred Sunwapta over Athabasca falls . There are a few viewpoints available here . One of the gorge after the falls . Another on the bridge looking over to the falls and a third closer to the brink .  We both thought the rock 'thumb' added a distinctiveness to these falls . There is easy access from the parking lot and also a trail down to the lower falls .
"We arrived in a morning & spent nearly 4 hours, looking at these magnificent place, the scenery and the walkway. The natural beauty was beyond our expectations, and if anyone going past Jasper National Park, there is no better place than what you see at Sunwapta. There are many beautiful places all along the H'way, where you can stop and enjoy the nature. Only down side is the highway toll, which I believe is far too much. But, what you see, is not possible to buy, and is priceless."
A nice location on the way to Banff or Jasper. Not too spectacular but nice to explore. One of the more popular sites out of all the falls.
"If you need a break, and have the time, this is a good stop along the Icefields Parkway. Given a choice between Sunwapta, and Athabaska Falls, Sunwapta comes is a distant second. There are however great facilities just off the highway for shopping and food."
"I loved this place early in the morning. I'm not sure there aren't crowds (like most other known attractions) once a certain hour has passed, but I was there before 7 a.m. and it was beautiful, peaceful, and I one of the high-points of our week-long car-camping expedition through the four parks.There were a handful of other visitors, and they were rather close by, but respectful of the solitude and magnitude of the location. Such grandeur to these falls. Parks Canada has placed a park bench at the first view point, and I could've sat there for hours, focusing in on a drop of water and watching its path down the falls. If there were a ""badge"" or award for best-placed park bench, this would be it!You can continue on a couple kilometer hike to the bottom of the falls--I would do this if I were any visitor. Even if you aren't in the best shape, take it slow and you will not regret it. Again, I cannot vouch for the experience once the crowds descend and the flashes start firing, but first thing in the morning, there are few other places on earth like this."
"We arrived early in the afternoon, and we took our suv right up to the falls. The upper part is nice and close. The lower part you need to walk a little. But it is not too difficult, you just have to watch your step. There are very old tree roots all around the edge of the falls. There is fences to keep people from falling in, and a bridge to walk over. The falls its self is amazing. There are lots of places for nice pictures. The lower part of the falls you can feel the spray of the falls.It is a must see."
"This is another is a series of great waterfalls between Banff and Jasper, including in Yoho Park, which are not to be missed. Again, the waterfalls are a short hike from the parking lot."
Sunwapta Falls is not as spectacular as the Athabasca Falls but is well worth visiting. The top of the falls is nice but crowded. There is a 2 Km hike to the bottom of the falls. It is a wooded hike with very little view of the river but takes you to the bottom of the falls. It's a nice and fairly easy walk.The gift shop at the bottom of the falls road just off the highway has a restaurant with surprisingly good food.
"The Upper Sunwapta Falls are not as impressive as the Athabasca Falls (reviewed by me separately), but are worth a visit.The falls are a short walk (I used 'walk"" and not ""hike"" on purpose) from the parking lot that is very close to the highway.There is an observation bridge/deck over the falls, which drop with great power through a very narrow slot/canyon. You can actually feel the observation deck shake from the vibration and the power of the water passing below. This in itself is very impressive and worth the visit.If you feel more adventurous (or if too many tourists bother you....), take the hike from the parking lot to the lower falls where you'll have the place to yourself and see the lower three falls which are beautiful.The Sunwapta Falls may not merit a special trip, as mentioned by some other reviewers, but if already in Jasper, I wouldn't skip it.Certainly Worth A Visit!!!"
Another nice water fall along the ice fields parkway. Follow the path down from the parking lot to view the falls from a bridge. Additional trails go around for more views.
"Pass by, spend a few minutes there and then move on. Nice to have seen it but you can see better falls in Yoho and Wells Gray."
"We stayed at the hotel nearby and so took a stroll down there, it's pretty but I wouldn't have pulled off the main highway for it."
I loved it here but we arrived at about 6pm in the evening sunshine when most had gone! It was an easy walk down and up to the upper falls and quite stunning. This is an ideal time to see them.
"We loved the hike down to the two sets of lower falls, that no one seemed to know about. We did have a little trouble even finding the right trail down (head downhill on the parking lot side of the falls). But the soltude of having the place to ourselves was fabulous!"
Wow. 915 feet down there. Lots of waterfalls. Beautiful. We walked on the Skywalk which moved in the wind. The skywalk is built to move so that or doesn't break. It's a little scary to walk on a glass floor 915 feet above a canyon. It's an experience that's for sure
On the way down from Jasper you will pass a few waterfalls and Sunwapta Falls is one. This waterfall is very accessible and short turn off the freeway to park and walk to view. Very well worth the stop. Relaxing view and easy access to trails (which we did not go on)
Good as part of a day out in the northern half of the Icefields Parkway. Easy to get to. Need to be able to do about 600 metre round trip grom the car park with some short distances at a 1 in 5 ish gradient.Good for photography if rushing and spouting water is your thing.
"Both upper and lower falls are worth a visit. If there in the spring, look for birds' nests in the cliff side. We saw a raven's nest with four chicks. The trail is well kept, and the walk is neither very long nor very strenuous, but is varied and beautiful."
The waterfalls is OK. It is easy to access the waterfalls. We are on the way from Banff to Jasper so it is logical to visit the falls.
One of our favorite stops on the IceFields Parkway. About 1/4 mile walk to get there from parking area (and pretty steep on the return) - but this diminishes the crowds - not a tour bus stop it seems. I really encourage everybody to take the 2 km walk down to the lower falls - very nice walk through the woods and the lower falls are actually even more beautiful. Give yourself 1-2 hours.
"a nice break from the drive , was surprised to find that there was Lady slippers flowering just off the trail from the parking lot to the falls."
Beautiful and impressive that is what you can say about these falls. Come early in the morning and you will have the place to yourselves.
"If you are visiting Jasper, this is the great view point & trail to see the lovely falls surrounded by the Mountains ! Truly awesome !"
"This tourist attraction is very accessible on our way to Jasper. Aside from this, it is also a wonderful place to appreciate the creations of God. My family and another friend's family came on this tour. Our children were so happy and excited to see the falls and take pictures on the trees... There is no entrance fee and I saw some tables that can be used for picnics... I would just let people know that when they visit the area to careful not to step on the wet rocks and boulders because it can be slippery. It is also our responsibility to keep the surroundings clean. Please do not leave any of your trash behind!"
"There are so many things to see on the Icefields Parkway, but the Sunwapta Falls and Canyon should be high on the list. A beautiful place to stop off, and not too crowded even in high season"
"Be here early morning, then there will be no rush and the place is extremely beautiful in first light!"
"These are some nice falls located on the icefields parkway. You have to pull off the highway and drive a very short distance to park and then walk down to the falls. Watch the access road, while paved, there seems to be a huge bump in the road, not sure if it is a frost heave or an actually speed dip, either way, it sent the contents of my trailer all over the place!The falls are accessed via a short walk to an observation area. They are fairly high and give off lots of spray. They are definitely worth the stop to see.Washrooms, etc are available right next to the highway, in the lodge located there."
"worth the stop while in the mountains, lots of parking, viewing bridges and trails are well used but in good shape. impressive falls and slot eroded canyon, lots of trails in the area."
"A short side step when driving the Icefields Parkway, followed by a short walk to the falls. A must when you are around, to see how massive water masses have narrow down to pass via the falls in a small canyon."
"We only had time to visit the upper falls, which are quite beautiful, but were told that it is worth taking an extra 20 minutes or so to walk down to the lower falls. Either way, the site is definitely worth visiting. The site is clearly signposted, just 1km along a straight road off the highway. Parking is ample and close to the falls, and its easy to pay a quick visit if time is limited. A recommended stop for stunning views of the falls."
We opted to stop here on the way from jasper to lake Louise for a picnic lunch. They had plenty of tables and many people had decided to do the something but more than enough to go around. The falls themselves are quite pretty as well and nice to walk around the different view points.
"Close to the highway - neat site to visit. If you're in a hurry & northbound, skip this & visit Athabaska falls instead - a bit more exciting."
"We love waterfalls. And this one is beautiful, and easy to get to since it's right off the highway. That was a plus for us, because we needed more time to see everything in Jasper. I'm so glad we didn't miss this one!"
"You cannot go everywhere and we had limited time on our Canadian Rockies adventure. I was curious about what I read in the guidebooks but we just could not do it between Lake Louise and Jasper. However, on the way back, despite the long trip that day to Calgary we stopped. With a bad leg I could only walk to the first view of the falls and the gorge. However, looking down a long way, to say the least, and to see how the falls and water flow had cut through the rock was amazing. A definite stop near Jasper."
"Well signed off the Icefield Parkway. It was quiet when we arrived. Lots of parking spaces. Quite good falls, but you cannot see that much in comparison with Athabasca Falls. I believe it is much better down river, but we did not venture further than the upper falls. Lots of interesting rock formations. Still very good and well worth a visit."
"When we were there, I would say 99.5% of the visitors stayed at the upper falls close to the parking lot. Partly this is due to not knowing there is anything else as the signage to the lower falls is not easily visible. But this is one trail you don't want to miss. The lower falls BY FAR is the best and if you don't go down there you have missed out big time. I can assure you that you won't regret it. The hike is easy, takes only 15-20 minutes, and you will come back looking at all the other visitors who were not as well informed as you! Don't miss this one."
This is quite fall. It gushes with a lot of force and the noise it makes is scary too. On first close look it feels as if the whole rocks will crumble under the massive force of water. You have to walk down to get good photos and closer glimpse.
"Most people stopped at the Upper Falls, but the real treat was the 2 km walk to the Lower Falls. It was a easy hike and the views were fantastic."
"This is a very easy stop that still allows you to get out and walk a bit. cool falls with excellent cut outs. If you're on this road, you should make this stop."
We travelled through this area during August. The parking lot gets full quickly and many bus tours stop here as well. You will want to make sure that you have on footwear with some kind of grip as many spots are slippery. There is a very nice gift shop at the resort but expect to pay resort prices. Many of the same items can be found in Banff & Jasper.
"Not far from Jasper on our way to Banff we came across the sign to the falls and canyon so in we went to experience another delight of nature. Lovely spot , it is awesome the power of the water going over the falls and rushing through the deep canyon. We walked for about an hour to the different stages and saw some great sites, great for photos.One never gets tired of looking at the majestic sights of waterfalls or canyons big or small so don't drive past this one, walk right in and have a good look at the power of the water and what it has carved out over time. It was hot and sunny there too so a walk through the woods and the spray from the river was very refreshing, loved it."
"I've been to Japer so many times that finding a diamond in the rough is rare, but we really hit the motherload with Sunwapta Falls and Canyon. While the highlight is the one tall falls, it is actually a series of three falls. The gorgeous canyon makes for a great highlight as well. Do not miss the hike down to see the other two falls if you have time. Sometimes, you can have the trail all to yourself...we almost did."
"I first passed it on our way to Jasper, because I thought that there was only a hotel there. Actually, the fall is about a less than a half mile from there, and yes there is parking at the fall, too. There seems to be a trail to go down closer to the fall, too if you are interested.With a lot of melted ice water feeding into the fall, it is very impressive. It is only a short, less than 5 minute walk from the parking lot, so is well worth to see. But don't know how it would look like with not much water. If you want to buy souvenirs or use the restroom, or even have a bite to eat, I would stop by at the lodging area on your way in or out."
Nature in the raw. Can't see enough of this stuff. A must see for everybody. The weather was amazing but it would probably have looked just as goodon a rainy day.
Another impressive attraction right off the Icefields Parkway. Spectacular falls and carvings made by the power of the water flowing through. Easily accessible but like many sights on the parkway you need to have a map and do a little research because it is possible to miss it. It wasn't crowded by Miami standards but definitely by Parkway standards (more than 15 people at any attraction except the Icefields).
It is very easy to link a visit to these falls at the same time as visiting Athabasca Falls. But when at Sunwapta take the trail for about 2 kms to the lower falls otherwise you will miss some great sights. The trail is easy walking.
"About 1 km from the main highway; not very high, but definitely worth a stop. The area around the top of the falls is paved and just doable with a wheelchair as the path is rather steep. Also accessible is a path on the right which shows the gorge and the power of the water coming through creating a pothole with great rock formations. Nice area for a picnic. There are trails around to get different aspects. 1 hour hike to Lower Sunwapta - fairly flat going down a reasonably easy walk even for the unfit. The falls are not as big but nice according to my daughter, who is not particularly fit. 4-5 hours to Big Bend."
As with Athabasca Falls: if you're travelling on the Icefields Parkway make sure to spend ½-1 hour on 'exploring' this area. It's quite nice :)
Definitely worth visiting when travelling between Banff and Jasper as these falls are pretty impressive in lovely scenery. There is a short walk from the car park but nothing too strenuous.
Definitely worth the stop between the Athabasca Glacier and Jasper. It's not quite Niagara Falls but with the additional gorgeous scenery it is definitely a beauty in its own.
"Great place to check out some of nature's finest displays. There's a bit of hiking involved, but it's worth it."
"We found these falls to be nothing special after visiting the Maligne Canyon and Athabasca Falls.
It was well worth a stop, but we were not taken a back by anything there."
"One of those places that most people stop at on the road between Jasper and Banff. Good parking, and also toilet facilities if needed in the car park. Easy stroll to the upper falls which are good but nearly as spectacular as the lower falls/canyon. Takes around 20 mins to walk down to the bottom and then same back up again. In the main the path is OK and easy to stop if you need a rest on the way up."
"We stopped here on our trip along the icefields parkway and it is worth the stop. Awe inspiring waterfall and you can the additional trek for 2-3 miles into the canyon, mind the tree stumps. It is worth this trek to a little bench and continuation of the falls. The water coursing down is truly remarkable."
"On our way out of town, we decided to visit a number of stops between Jasper and Lake Louise. First on the trek was Sunwapta Falls which delighted the family as the kids hadn't seen a waterfall before. Parks Canada does a nice job of balancing the needs of tourists with the desire to keep these areas natural. We enjoyed the falls, information boards, and trails around the area. This is the type of stop where you could just go see the falls and leave or spend an entire day hiking around the area to see more. Definitely worth the stop."
"We only saw the falls, so this review doesn't refer to the canyon (which may raise the rating if we had). The falls is very nice, but we saw it after athabasca it athabasca is better. If you are tight on time you can skip this one and see athabasca. But if you have the time it is worth it given how close to the road it is and there are some nice trails around it."
"When you first come in, it doesn't look like much, so keep going! Short walks to beautiful falls and an island in the middle of the river. Stairs lead down to more views of the canyon and a peaceful river. Nice place!"
Loved the whole area. Well worth a visit. Great place for photographs. Incredible force of water. Again rocks sloppy with the spray so care needed but geography comes to life here
"When driving from Athabasca Glacier/Columbia Icefields to Jasper, there are 2 waterfalls that should not be missed,
The Sunwapta falls and the Athabasca falls. Nice picnic area, nice trails."
"we were at the Sunwapta Falls in May 2013. We could only go a short way on the trail because of snow and ice, but enjoyed the part that we did see. The weather was great and we got some nice pictures. Only wish that we could have gone the entire way."
"There was a small crowd of people at the Upper Falls, and it really wasn't a great view. I don't understand why everyone doesn't take the short walk down to the lower falls. It was a wonderful short hike with views of glacier capped mountains, valleys and falls. I got a couple great photos at the lower falls and only saw one other person."
Sunwapta Falls and Canyon is a place you should stop to see. I saw allot of Canyons and Falls in Jasper . I liked Sunwapta Falls just as much as all the others. Its a easy hike to see the whole thing. Some of the falls might not be as large as others in the area but its good scenery. It has some neat canyons. You can never see enough water falls. Its close off the road going to Jasper and its has a nice big parking lot and restroom. Alot of people make a mistake and don't see the whole canyon. After you see the first watrerfall I believe you take the trail to the right. The trail on the right follows the whole Canyon. There is a smaller water fall at the end of the Canyon. Its a pretty easy hike. I don't like hard hikes. So this one fit my needs. If you want something to eat there is a hotel close to the falls.
"Most visitors just stay around the Upper Falls. Very few take the hike to the Lower Falls, missing out on beautiful vistas and additional falls. It's 2km but fairly easy and well worth it."
Short trails lead to the top of the falls and to a good viewpoint of the narrow canyon midway down the falls. The power of the water is breathtaking!
These falls are around 54km South of Jasper on the Icefields Parkway just past the Sunwapta Falls Rocky Mountain Lodge which offers food and accommodation although we didn’t try either (check if seasonal). The falls are accessible all the time although they apparently freeze over in Winter and judging by an earlier posting could be a challenge then. When we were there in September 2011 there were huge amounts of water pouring through the narrow gorge which you can view from a bridge spanning the river. The walls of the gorge are very steep and for safety measures wire fencing has been erected alongside which although not particularly attractive is probably a necessity. It wasn’t busy and we only visited the upper falls -you can walk a trail to lower ones if you have time. Not on the same scale as Athabasca Falls if you have to choose between only one or other but worth a stop.
A visit to Sunwapta Falls is one of many stops you can make off the Icefields Parkway.There is a huge canyon cut out by an immense amount of water rushing through it. There are a few trails that will allow you views from different angles. Very nice.
We stopped at Sunwapta Falls on our way to Jasper and it's a convenient stopover just off of Highway 93/the Icefields Parkway (you'll see signs). There is a Sunwapta Resort Lodging area right off the highway before you get to the Falls and the lodge is a nice area to use the washroom (a full service washroom unlike the many portable washrooms you'll come across along Highway 93) and grab a snack (there is a cafeteria and a small dining area - yes it is overpriced but there aren't many options on that road). There is also a gift shop here which is nice. Sunwapta Falls is a nice stop to get out and take pictures at. It's not anything spectacular and personally I feel that Athabasca Falls (closer to Jasper - about 30 km south of Jasper) is more impressive. If you'd like to see pictures I took of both Sunwapta Falls and Athabasca Falls you can view my site link here: http://www.karenlaw.ca/2012/07/vacation-pictures-sunwapta-falls.html
"In june 2012 the amount of water being squeezed through the canyon was an amazing sight. You can safely watch the display from various angles. Since it's just besides the icefields parkway and close to the parking, it's worth while to have a look. If you want to stay longer, you can walk to the lower falls for about 1.5 hours round trip."
They advertise these places to be open but they don't both maintaining the roads so they just close them. Even though you still pay the park pass.
"Sunwapta Falls is located about half an hour south of Jasper on the Icefields Parkway. It includes an old resort, but the biggest attraction is its location on the Sunwapta River. Pull off the highway and go past the resort to the public parking lot. Just steps away is a scenic viewpoint where you can look at the torrent of water plunging through a narrow crevice. Walk down the hill, and you can stand on a bridge directly over the waterfall, or continue down along the river for a couple of kilometres and enjoy the wider, lower falls as well. In summer it's an easy walk down a forest path, but in winter it becomes a very different adventure. We walked in on snowshoes on top of a few feet of snow. The accumulations of ice at the upper falls were delightful, but our goal was the lower falls. Look for a sign pointing you to the path then just stay on the area that's cleared of trees. There had been no foot traffic (since it was a winter weekend in February) but we came across a set of tracks going our way. They were made by a lone wolf heading down the valley, but like us he had been looking for a relatively easy route. After a kilometer or two, we came out at the bottom of the trail, a much larger area than above with a number of places to ogle the waterfalls and ice formations in the lower part of the canyon. We walked around and took many, many photos. A true winter wonderland and only a short distance from the highway. How nice to be out all alone in the forest on a beautiful trail with great scenery as our goal!Depending on snowfall, snowshoes or cross-country skis may be required. Before you go, tell someone where you're going and when to expect you back. Dress warmly and make lots of noise so the animals know you're coming."
Along the Icefields Parkway. Worth the stop to take some photos.
"Sunwapta Falls was not very spectacular, and I think it should be avoided. It wasn't worthwhile stopping. It is a smaller fall, with lots of powerful water, but only a short drop. Maybe my opinion is affected because I've ssen so many spectacular waterfalls, but Sunwapta is nothing special. If you need a place to stretch your legs, I'd recommend Goats and Glaciers Viewpoint about 10 km. north, which yields a phenomenal view of the Athabasca River, and is one of the top places to spot mountain goats in the Rockies. On one visit, we saw at least 10. To me, Sunwapta Falls is a waste of time."
