It was thrilling to take the bus onto the glacier and walk around it. We parked our RV in the parking lot facing the glacier after the excursion. It is hard to describe how beautiful the scenery is....a must see. Not far from the glacier is the glass sidewalk over the canyon....a real mind blower. The Rocky Mountains truly rejuvenate the soul.
"We parked at the glacier car park (on the other side of the road to the main park centre). The car park gets quite full but we did manage to jag a spot immediately. The walk up from there to the bottom of the glacier is quite steep and takes 10-20 mins at least depending on how you feel. It can also be a bit slippery with loose gravel and rocks. On the way, note the signs that show where the glacier was in the recent past - and some people say there is no climate change? It may be for normal, natural, cyclical reasons but the glacier is definitely receding.I found it interesting to see the scratches on the rock from where the glacier had moved over it.As it is a reasonably hard walk up to the glacier, there are fewer people there than you might have expected from seeing how busy the centre is across the road.It was quite a cold day when we were there and noticeably colder at the glacier than down in the car park so rug up regardless and be prepared."
"I visited the Ice Field in late October, which may not have been so ideal. It was very cold, hard to walk around the rocks because of the snow, and I only spent around 30 minutes here because of this. The tours don't run during this time either. It was still a wonderful experience, starting with the drive to this area. The actual frozen glaciers are far into the distance, and is not safe to approach due to unstable, snowy paths. But even from afar, the ice looked nice. Knowing I was staring at nature that has stood still in time for millions of years makes this visit worth it."
The ice fields are nice but the pricing of most things is very expensive. The service is reasonable and the servers are pleasant.
This was our first trip to an ice field and there is no way to describe how massive the glacier is until you are traveling in the huge coach that takes you there and then stepping out onto the ice. It was a fantastic experience.
The Columbia Icefield is about a 2 hour drive from Calgary. it is remarkable to see how the glacier is shrinking over that past 20 years. The walking tour allows the visitor a change to see the size and grandeur of the glacier.
"We drove through the ice fields. Well worth the drive. First time driving through the Ice Fields. One drawback, no wifi for miles. We did manage to cope though, lol."
"We paid for the walking tour and it was well worth it. You can drive yourself to the ice field and view it from a reasonable distance, but the walking tour allows you to walk on the glacier and to experience it from a close up view.Our guide was excellent, and spent as much time as necessary making sure that we proceeded at a comfortable speed for everyone in the group. The group was about 16 people.Walking on the glacier, you get to see close up some of the crevaces (and how deep they really are), the colour of the ice, the clarity and just how big the glacier really is. Parking is limited and tight at the icefield. There is a lot of parking across the highway at the visitors centre.The walk from where the tour meets in the parking lot to the actual glacier is a challenge. It is up a rock pathway for about 1/2 a kilometre, up a steep hill - not an easy walk for anyone limited in their walking abilities.Definitely glad that we took the time to do this one."
"The glaciers are a sight to behold. The walkway is not for the faint of heart, although, they do have an option of staying away from the glass."
"I had an excellent travel experience there. It was my first time walked on the Ice field. I booked a Glacier Adventure Tour via Brewster, the tour was great and so excited, but the actual time we stayed on ice was short... I will take the ice field walking tour if I have second change to visit."
We certainly did not expect to experience walking on a Glacier. It is something not to be missed. The extent and depth of the ice was incredible and going on the Ice Explorer was simply fantastic. The tour guide was very knowledgeable which made the experience even more attractive.
"This is a must for anyone travelling between Jasper and Banff. The buses that take you there are terrific, with a good guide it makes it fun. Great ecperience."
This glacier is amazing in that it is receding but it is still accessible to the people who are keen to experience it in all its glory.
"After an uncomfortable ride on VIA Rail from Vancouver to Jasper, we took our rented Jeep Grand Cherokee on the road from Jasper to Banff. And what a ride! It is ranked as one of National Geographic's Top Ten Scenic Drives in the world. My husband commented that it looked like another planet to him. Because it is Canada's 150th anniversary this year (2017) entrance to the national parks was free. So when we picked up our park pass at the visitor's center in Jasper we got maps and recommendations on everyone's favorite spots to stop along the route.We left Jasper before lunch and arrived in Banff at dinner time. My husband and I enjoy traveling and sight seeing by car so this was right up our alley. I highly recommend it.Because of the crush of tour buses (hundreds) and the thousands (I am not exaggerating) of tourists at the Ice Field Center when we pulled in, we were unable to visit the look out nor could we take the tour of the glacier, for both of which we had passes. (Our travel company graciously refunded both of those fees.) But there were plenty of places to get a great picture. I, like many Canadians we spoke with, also felt uneasy about the invasion of the glacier so at least my conscience is clear. If you can, do it. I would do it again."
"We decided not to go on the bus as was bit pricey and next one wasn't for 3 hours so drove over and walked up to rope. Very steep climb, had to stop and rest catch breath. Took in view and took some pics. Very nice."
"Incredible views,to think,its basically remained like this for centuries.It really leaves you speechless,the sheer size and thickness of it.Well worth the visit."
"We were bound to have some rain on our trip, and unfortunately it was on the day we drove past the ice field. But even then it was evident how great this place is. We spent some time in the visitor's centre but decided against taking any tours. If I ever make it back, I would definitely go on a glacier tour!"
"This visit left us in awe! It's nothing short of amazing that it is even possible to visit a glacier and be able to stand on it, collect some trickling water in your water bottle and drink it. Pretty darn amazing. Once again, Mother Nature leaves me speechless in her grandeur!"
Very scenic route. I've heard that you get to view wildlife along the route too. Due to the colder weather I think though there were not much. We saw mountain goats in an area marked on the tourist guide we collected at Information desk. There is no network access. So inform your friends and family you'll be unavailable by phone for most of the day. We didn't see the Glacier on this trip. However there's so much more to see it still took us a full day going from Canmore to Jasper. Keep watching out for lookout spots and don't forget to download web pages or reviews of interest prior to travelling because of patchy network reception.
"Peoples, please forget about taking some glacier ruining bus (unless, of course, you happen to have limited mobility) and take a hike on the Athabasca Glacier, which is the same one those large vehicles take you on. I used a tour company called Ice Walk and we hiked on it for almost six hours and what a GREAT experience. (Please don't hesitate to read my review on them). You get to see millwells (moulins), which are basically waterfalls into caves, of which our great guide Ian took one of our hands so we could lean over and look inside. We also saw crevasses, ice caves, streams and the upper part of the Athabasca glacier. The hiking was fairly easy, with the exception of jumping over a couple of streams. If you're a person that's getting a bit long in the tooth, like myself (almost 49) and are pretty fit, you can do it no problem. We had a 61 year old woman in our group who had no problem with the hike. I find it quite funny when the title of this attraction is Columbia Ice Field, where most of those that have written reviews refer to seeing it by getting off a bus. You only see part of the Athabasca Glacier. The Columbia Icefield is huuuge. It's the largest ice Field in the Rocky Mountains in North America, lying partly in the northwestern tip of Banff National Park and the southern end of Jasper National Park. It's about 325 square kilometers/125 square miles in area, with the depth between 100 meters/330 feet and 365 meters/1,200 feet deep. You can see pretty much the whole Icefield by taking the Parker Ridge Trail and the Wilcox Pass Trail across the street from the glacier. The trail heads start not far from the Icefields Discovery Center. If you're in good shape, you could do both in a day pretty easily. The nice thing about the last two options is they don't cost a penny to hike, just your energy. I plan on doing those two trails next time (planned on doing them this time, but the glacier walk was irresistible to me when I found out about it).  Thanks for reading. If you feel this information helped you, it would be appreciated if you would tap the below. Thank you"
"The Glacier Adventure that leaves from the Icefields Center is a great experience. A short bus ride takes you to an exchange point where you transfer to their Ice Explorer vehicles. These huge machines transport you over a glacial moraine and out onto a glacier, allowing you time to get out and walk on a glacier. Its cold, so take a warm cover-up. And it is slippery. But you do get a good idea about glacier make-up and how they shape the earth."
Going onto the glacier in bus with very large wheels is a good way to see a glacier without having to fly onto one
"A girlfriend and I did the Columbia Ice Field tour with Brewsters Tours Canada, and so lucky we did, what a site to see, it is a definite must to do this, although we ran into a problem when our Glacier Ice Vehicle had a bit of bad luck as we were on our way back down the glacier the bus broke down and we got stuck on the ice for a couple of hours as they tried to fix the problem but hey in the end we just transferred to another vehicle for our descent back down it was all good though it is a must see."
"This is the third time I've been out on the glacier and it never fails to wow and educate me. I feel it's a 'must do' if in the area. Our guides were excellent as always, friendly, informative and they really try hard to make the trip memorable for you. This time we also went on the Sky Walk and I was somewhat underwhelmed by this, next time (because there will be a 'next time') I will just stick to the glacier. It's certainly not cheap, and it can get super busy, so pick your time carefully, but I still feel it's worth it. And if it causes just some of the people who visit to think more about their climate change footprint, then it's worth it's weight in gold (or trees which will end up being more valuable)."
"We went on a Brewster - Pursuit group outing from Jasper to the Columbia Ice Fields.This was during the Jasper Dark Sky Festival. It was amazing all the way through.Our Guide was excellent - providing us with lots of information and history of the area, As part of this event we had cocktails and hors d'oeuvres (some of which were even Gluten Free) , then we went out on the Ice Field in the Crawler and then got out to walk on this amazing piece of Nature - absolutely spectacular. Then we returned to the Ice Field Centre were there was a beautiful and delicious buffet dinner, followed by a presentation conducted by an Astronomer. After this we went out to the Glass Sky Walk - where it was pitch black - to see the night's sky - when the clouds moved out of the way it was breathtaking - so beautiful. There were Telescopes setup. binoculars available to use amazing staff/guides and there was also a warming station, with hot chocolate, coffee and cookies.Then on our drive back into Jasper we could see the Northern Lights - something that I have always wanted to see.This trip to the Ice Fields was an event that I signed up to do during the Dark Sky Festival, so these little extras will not be available any other time.I would recommend a visit to the Columbia Ice Fields even if it is not during the Dark Sky Festival."
"Fabulous trip with Brewsters tours our driver Al gave us so much information before we set off on the ice bus. I was really impressed by our driver of the ice bus who explained all aspects so well, she was so competant in handling such a large vehcle whilst answering questions from the passengers and most importantly she had a wonderful sense of humour. This is a must visit place and experience walking on the icefield."
Fab visit to a beautiful glacier. Truck staff are very informative and interesting. Quite disorganised on arrival as no signage on where you have to check in but once you get booked in the tour is excellent and efficient.
"Amazing experience to be right on the glacier and learn about the glacier fields. Go now because by the time your grandchildren want to go, there will be no glaciers due to global warming."
"We drove up to the base, parked, skipped the visitor center and the lines, and walked up to the toe of the glacier. If you take the bus it drives up by a more circuitous route and deposits you in the middle of the glacier. We found the walk easy. The ground was a bit uneven but it was not a problem to get very close to the toe where we could see up the entire glacier. As any geologist can tell you, the underside of a glacier is a messy place with piles of glacial till forming a terminal moraine. It was possible to see the gouges the glacier made in the base rock. Overall a nice walking side trip while travelling in the ice field parkway."
"This excursion was included as part of our Rocky Mountaineer vacation and was amazing. Yes, the visitor centre was a bit of a tourist trap, but it was modern and clean and there was a Parks Canada kiosk with multilingual attendants answering questions about Jasper National Park. There was a bit of a wait to get on the glacier climber, but it was a neat buggy! Our driver Nick was very knowledgeable about the glaciers and the icefield (there is a difference) and he told some stories and answered questions. The actual time on the icefield is limited and controlled, for which I am glad. The ice is retreating at quite a rate so it was a once in a lifetime experience for us."
"We stopped here whilst driving from Jasper to Banff. We drove to the car park at the foot of the glacier & did the loop walk - it is steep & the ground is very loose so you will probably need walking shoes. The walk round is interesting in terms of the proof of the rapidly retreating glacier but you don't actually get anywhere near it. After a few quick pictures we were back in the car & on our way. Although we made the mistake of stopping at the visitor centre for toilets & a bite to eat - DON'T bother. Food is awful!! And a ripoff - we both had soup (to warm us up) & a sandwich/roll each - the soup was cold & flavourless, and the sandwich/roll was plain/bland & dry. Total waste of money. Would describe it as the worst sort of canteen food I've ever eaten."
"I was so excited at the thought of setting foot on the glacier, so had pre booked our tickets. However our guide had mentioned that they rake the ice on the glacier for the tourists and that this raking was accelerating the glacier's retreat. I couldn't do that."
"This is sort of like Niagara Falls. It's a tourist trap with long lines and waits, but when you are out on the glacier looking back at how small the place you left from is, how far the glacier has retreated, and how vast the glacier and the overhanging ice field is. Well it's worth it."
Passing by to Jasper from Banff is a must see the Gracia and the frozen lakes are amazing... Beware to fill up at the previous fuel station especially in winter...
"It was interesting, the driver explained how it was formed and that it is part of a much larger ice field. The equipment which takes you on the ice field looks like something out of Star Wars. Interesting and fun--do it you'll enjoy yourself."
Great afternoon on the ice flow. Magic ride to ice with Sandra driving Goergette the Snowbus. Natural entertainment high in the Rockies.
A very well organised adventure onto the Columbia Ice Field is a treat. Entertaining commentaries from our drivers enhanced the overall experience with the glacier itself a fabulous experience.
A place that to visit is a must. The trip up to the glacier is not the sort of thing that you would ever do again. The only downside is that it does get very busy and we visited out of season.
Great learning and educational spot for young and old alike. It is quite unique and worth the experience.
"Wow - to walk on a glacier! It was so interesting and such fun (wear shoes with a good grip). We caught the Ice Explorer out to the glacier, our guide was so informative and funny. Remember to take an empty water bottle and fill it with pure glacial water - heaven!"
Amazing experience. The ice explorers are huge and the ride up the glacier to the ice field is quite an adventure! Just to be out on the ice field and to experience this wonder of nature is worth it.
"If driving past the Columbia Ice Field you must take the ""Snow Coach"" up onto the glacier. It is receding fast so don't miss the opportunity to experience a real glacier - which is easily accessible."
"Bad day for viewing, low clouds rain/snow did not see much of ice field. The travelers information center was closed, lots of people but not much happening."
This trip really didn't seem worth the 2 hour wait and the high price tag just to get into a bus and drive across the riad in a bus to get out on the ice and come back !
"We were not sure it was going to be worth the cost , especially when we found out that there was no choice but to pay for the Sky Walk as well as the Glacier Experience ( which was all we really wanted to do). But it was well worth it in the end. The Sky Walk out over the glacier was very well done, with excellent information boards as well as the experience of being over the glacier . There was no much ice in evidence when we were there, but later in the year, I'm sure there would be.The drive out to the Glacier and the short time we were on the ice was amazing. Of course, we filled a water bottle with melt water from the glacier - who does not. It was really nice tasting although cold! It is quite frightening to see how much the glacier has retreated over the last century. Hopefully, the rate of disappearance will slow. The cafe is very expensive and not very good. So, take your own picnic although, unless you travel with a flask, you may have no choice if you need a hot drink. The whole operation is very slick - as it should be. They have a lot of experience!"
Been here previously in 1955 and again in 1961 and it was disappointing to see how the ice field had retracted over the years. Our guide unto the glacier was excellent and provided a lot of information. Well worth the visit and truly hope global warming will not further impact to any significant degree.
If you go to Alberta you must drive the Ice field highway been there before and it is very breath taking and you have no cell service so you enjoy and relax
"We flew into Calgary to drive the 5 hours to Jasper up the Columbia Ice Field Highway. The drive flew by with the beautiful views. Beautiful snow capped mountains, glacier after glacier. We could have stopped every 15 minutes to take pictures. Not touristy since you are in the National Park. Make sure you have plenty of gas before the drive. This was a great way to start our visit to the Canadian Rockies to understand how beautiful it is."
"We were there end of summer, so there was no snow on the mountain tops, but still lots of glaciers to stop & look at. So it meant we were able to see the amazing shapes & colours of the ""rocky"" mountains. If snow had covered them, we would not have seen the differences between each of the mountains & ranges. Definitely worth seeing it at that time."
Columbia Ice Fields is a remarkable and awe inspiring experience. From the Ice Fields Parkway that take you to your destination to the glacier itself. To think that you are standing on something so ancient. The scenery is stunning and geology fascinating. I have been on this twice and don't forget the Skywalk!! It is definitely a must if one is visiting Alberta. Don't forget to check the road conditions if you are driving on the Icefields Parkway in winter and if the Columbia Ice Field is open as they do shut in winter.
"Amazing site. It is like going back in time. Imagine the water from here goes to The Artic, The Pacific and the Atlantic. It feeds the majority of rivers in North America."
"The Columbia Ice Field (about 125 sq mile in area) is located between two National Parks Jasper and Banff in Canada. It is the largest Ice Field in the Rocky Mountains. Our process of exploration was full of pleasant surprises. It started when we got on board the huge vehicle known as ‘Ice-explorer’ with custom built huge tires (each costing USD 4000)! The vehicle was being driven by an extremely efficient and charming young lady named Sandra. We drove in the mountains and moved around glacier ice pads on the snow coach. We were taken inside the ice fields and we got down from the coach on Athabasca glacier. Subsequently we travelled around other parts of the Columbia Ice field. Our driver cum guide Sandra showed us the unique features of the Ice Field. We saw the multiple layers of the Ice Blocks, the fossilised tree trunks in the Ice Field, the blue tinges in glaciers and the formation of the lakes where glaciers are melting down over time."
Very well organised but the glacier is small and you are restricted to an tiny area where there may be 100 or so visitors
This is something to remember forever. Well organized and a photographers dream. Remember to wear good walking shoes. Staff are very friendly. There is places to eat and a shop.
"Rode in a huge bus up to to ice fields. View was spectacular.
It was a popular attraction.,and a very safe event."
I have always wanted to walk on a glacier and as a non accomplished mountaineer this is probably the best way to do it. Well organised and the bus is a beast but when you get there dont expect to get a quiet thought provoking moment as you will be squashed into a small cordened off area with 200 others.The view looking outwards is amazing and the drivers were quite knowlegeable but dont expect solitude
"Made a mistake visiting later in the day as it was very busy, meant a bit of a wait to visit the Glacier itself, next time!!. The centre is well designed with a restaurant and the regulation gift shop. However there is a nice area just to sit and there are walks from the centre. Pleanty to do will plan my next visit better."
"The glacier sure is impressive. The place is, of course, pretty crowded with tourists, but it's still worth a visit. There are many interesting signs around telling you all kind of stuff about the glacier and its receding form. Beautiful and interesting!"
"When we arrived, the sun was shining in a blue sky, but by the time we got onto the glacier about an hour later, we were in the middle of a snow blizzard with horizontal driving snow and almost zero visibility! I suppose it made it all the more real. Shame that the low cloud made it impossible to see the bottom of the canyon for the sky walk, though. When we passed by about an hour later, it was clear again - sod's law!"
"Some stunning views makes you wanna stop here and hike around. Do not do the glacier tour. First of all is expensive (94 cad), and you will not see more then you will walking up there yourself to the rim of the glacier."
"#1. Book in Advance (well in advance)#2. Be prepared for crowds and lien-ups and waiting for most things.#3. Be prepared for suppliers to bundle this experience with another.#4. Be prepared to fork over $94/personDisappointing as we wanted to show this to our UK visitors, but none of us could justify the cost or time required. We took photos from the Visitor Center and left."
Interesting experience going out onto the glacier in the big wheeled coach. We had Andy as our driver who really seemed to love his job imparting interesting facts and witticisms along the way. You feel you have to get out and walk on the ice just to say you did. Views are really good
"Patrick Hoffman was very knowledgeable at his job. He was very thorough. He explained everyone about the glaciers. He talked about tbe surrounding mountains.
He kept us busy while we waited. Excellent customer service."
"We got the hubbies to pull over to get out and have a look. The glacier area was pretty with plants of a wide variety and colors. We didn't walk up to the glacier, but we could have. It was a pretty day and nice to get some photos."
"I can’t explain this experience with my own words, because you have to see it with your own eyes to fully enjoy it!They had only one bathroom, not clean and every-time full with travelers. The walk uphill with normal shoes is impossible, is snow has fallen. The walk up there is all on your own and at your own risk. The floor is very slippery and you have to have the right equipment to get up and down without falling to the floor. All of this is available for free. If you get a guide, you obviously have to pay them something, but than you are closer to the Ice Field than any other visitors! Lots of fun, be steady on your feet while going up there, be safe and enjoy!"
"We drove from Lake Louise to the Brewster Icefield Discovery Center building south of Jasper. That was an hour and a half. Parking was tricky. We bought our tickets in advance, but we still had an hour wait to get on the icefield bus. So we had a late breakfast in the café. The bus takes you to the ICE Explorer, a specially designed vehicle with giant tires that can ride on glaciers. But all it does is drive you to a parking lot on the edge of the Athabasca glacier. Then you get off and walk in a restricted area. It’s cold and windy. 15 minutes is our time limit to take photos, get some glacier water and, hopefully, not fall through the ice. ICE Explorer back to the bus which takes us to the skywalk. This gives you a panoramic view of the glacier, but don’t attempt it if you have vertigo. There is also some information about the growth and decline of glaciers and flora and fauna info. Back on the bus to the parking lot and in the car for an hour and half drive to Lake Louise. I’d call it a once in a lifetime experience, because I certainly wouldn’t do it twice."
"The trip onto the glacier should not be missed. Although large numbers were visiting, the operation ran very smoothly. Only negative is the high cost of on site food."
You can park near the Athabasca glacier and walk right to it. If you are in good shape you can walk to it about 15 minutes. The air gets thin as you go up the walk way but well worth going to. Lots of information on signs on the journey.
"When I went to the ice fields my kids were supper excited to see snow at ground level in the middle of summer. Because it was cooler than the 30 deg weather we were used to my little one had his arms pulled up inside his sleeves and in all the excitement took a tumble face first and received a huge gash in his chin. Although I had a first aid kit it was buried under a weeks work of camping and travel gear for a family of 4 so we went to the Chalet.... which was grossly under prepared for any sort of first aid emergency. So, be prepared. Despite that, we enjoyed exploring the ice fields and was a very exciting experience for the kids."
"Very interesting trip to the Columbia Ice Field. You can learn about glacial mechanics at the Centre, which is a thronged activity complex where you can grab a bite, & book a tour of the glacier via Ice Explorer (specialist all-terrain vehicle) with a knowledgeable guide and the opportunity to walk on the toe of Athabasca Glacier, a broad ramp of ice and snow. A large three-dimensional model of the Ice Field clearly shows its extent (100 square miles).You can also drive along the spur road, park and hike to the edge of the glacier, but don't venture onto the ice without a qualified guide - the crevasses are deep, & people have died in them."
The visit of this ice field is packaged as a big event. First you take a bus to a intermediate station where you switch to a real ice field bus. The vehicles are dated and will run out of service in a few years when the ice field is melted. You better do the trip on foot. Completely overrated!
"We stopped here on a bus tour from Jasper to Lake Louise as part of the Rocky Mountaineer package. The trip was mile after mile of spectacular mountains and glaciers. Our driver was extremely knowledgeable, friendly and informative. You must take a specially constructed ""ice bus"" from the visitor center up to the glacier, and that is an exciting experience in itself. We were there on a warm, sunny day, and glacier melt put a coating of water on the surface. The combination of that with wind gusts of at least 50 mph made for hazardous walking, and many in our party did not get off the bus. I still recommend this."
"Outstanding experience exceeded expectations- to see this ancient ice field, to stand on it and drink the icy water from it was quite mind blowing!"
"The most remarkable thing about this glacier experience is to learn about the truly alarming rate at which the glacier is disappearing. Otherwise, ths place is a dump. The visitor centre is a long way from the glacier. The seventy is like a moon scape, there was an unpleasant smell of diesel overhanging the walk from the snow coaches travelling on the glacier and frankly if you believe in the need to direct our Autralia environment you wouldn't want to see what happens here."
A great overall experience . There is a shuttle to take you to the ice explorer. The views and Glacier Experience were amazing and the ride on the Ice Explorer vehicle was an experience of a lifetime our Australian driver-guide Nick was very informative and funny.
"A must visit location when driving the Icefield Parkway. The visitor centre is always extremely crowded. We went directly to the car park on the opposite side of the highway and hiked up to the toe of the Glacier you get a great view from there without taking any of the tours. They don't seem like good value for money and when you read about the Glacier receding I think it may be better to off it altogether !!! and not drive huge vehicles onto it.After our visit to the toe we did drive across to the visitor centre, I felt it was too crowded and not pleasant to visit as a result."
"This location next to the Athabasca Glacier has plenty of parking, friendly people in the information office and they sell tickets to nearby attractions and offer plenty of travel advice and information. There are restaurants with indoor and outdoor dining areas and the facility is right across the highway from the glacier."
We recently visited here and had a great time. The only thing to beware of when you first arrive is it is very busy and you will have to queue up to wait for the excursion. Prior to getting on the ride there is a bus shuttle to get to the ice explorers. This is a must experience and the guides are very good. The only problem I found was that even if you were not doing the skywalk you still had to stay in the bus to drop people off there before you go back to base. They should organise a different bus for those not doing the skywalk but overall a great experience.
"When my fiancé and I drove by and saw the actual size of the glacier and all the hassle through the buses and crowds to be able to walk on it, we quickly decided this definitely wasn't for us. If you don't mind tours and crowds, then this attraction is for you. I would definitely note that the glacier and the skywalk are not as big and grand as the videos or pictures on the Brewster websites."
"Visited her as part of a tour party. It really is a tourist trap. It was extremely crowded, our driver had great difficulty in finding a parking space and the centre was at bursting point with visitors. It was a manic scrum down to get anything to eat with long queues to the tills, whilst the shop was no better. Our driver and guide on the ride to the glacier was a young Australian, who had a wealth of knowledge, and endless interesting facts regarding the icefield and how it was receding. Sadly, once on the glacier, we were confined to an area no bigger than a cricket square to walk on. The surface ice was dirty from thousands of tourists feet. Overall, the snow-capped mountains and icefield is a wonderful sight to see. The downside is the volume of coaches and cars and the unbelievable number of tourists packed into the visitors center that spoils the experience. I am sure the huge number far exceeds the fire departments limits. Mr. Brewster must be rubbing his hands."
"Check this off our bucket list - walked on a glacier! We took this trip on a September morning as part of a tour group so can't comment on parking issues. The facility was crazy busy yet our group stayed organized and together. We had a fun guide driving us to the all-terrain Ice Explorer. However, we had the BEST guide & driver take us to the glacier. She was a petite young girl from Australia and gave us an entertaining ride. She was funny, full of knowledge and even sang for us - great voice, too! When you exit the vehicle, you must stay within the marked boundary areas. You have about 20 minutes to take photos and observe the texture and colors of the glacier. It was very cold and windy the day we visited and we felt that was plenty of time. Our driver let out a big yell with her powerful voice when it was time to get back on the vehicle."
"An awesome natural site to behold. It has receded enormously over the last 30 years, so worth visiting before it goes. Its a steepish rocky climb to view it, but worth driving to the base opposite the main car park to have a walk up."
"I was somewhat skeptical about the value of this activity, as I could not see it being enjoyable with so many people being transported there. However, it was well worth it, as the views from the snowmobile were superb, and the commentary was excellent. Walking on the ice requires care, but it's a great experience."
"One of the best sites we visited in the Canadian Rockies. We had an extended wait but enjoyed the views on the deck with a mediocre lunch. Best views and exp Etienne and worst burger ever. Advertises AAA Alberta beef burger so my expectations were high. Had been sitting on the grill wrapped for a while so the bottom bun was close to leather consistency. But, who comes to a glacier for food? The views and Glacier Experience were amazing ant the ride on the Ice Explorer vehicle was en experience of a lifetime our Australian female driver-guide was very informative and funny. It wad late afternoon on the Glacier and really cold and windy off the Ice Field. One of only a few places on earth where water can run into three different oceans: Arctic, Pacific, & Atlantic. I believe a melted drop cans reach one of those oceans in just 4 days.... AMAZING. Skywalk had great views but was just so...so but came as a package experience.... long way down."
"This seemed so hyped I thought for sure it must be a tourist trap. We paid $93C per person for combo tickets - skywalk and Ice field.First - This place is so packed - mainly with bus tours - it must be a fire hazard. Organization is haphazard with signs and queues but so many people standing around, blocking entrances and exits it all becomes chaotic and unclear on where to go or how to get there. But...this is not the reason for the poor rating.We arrive early and asked if we could get on a tour earlier than our ticket - we were moved up 45 minutes earlier and decided to do the skywalk first. It was SNOWING so - there was ZERO visibility and the glass floor on the skywalk was quite slippery - someone fell and gashed open their head!! Waste of time - definitely don't bother on a snowy day but not sure on a nice day what you would see - the walk does NOT overlook any glacier and you must take a shuttle bus over. I would never have purchased this EXCEPT you have two ticket choices: Skywalk only or Combo.Grumbling crew spends 5 minutes at this wretched place and waits on line (in the cold snowy weather) for the next bus back to the center. Café and eating area so packed and crazy anyone could have just taken food and left. we decided the line for hot food was far too long and grabbed a cold drink and cookie ($7C - REALLY?) and TRIED to get a seat. The bus loads of people were picnicking in the café!! not a seat to be had. Chaos.Time for our glacier tour - we waited again on line for another bus to shuttle us to the glacier. We waited, and waited. Finally, at 30 minutes after our schedule departure time - they announced there were mechanical difficulties and they were closing for the day! UGH! Oh yes - and to get a refund - we must wait on yet another chaotic line. At the desk - they were only going to give me a partial refund (they claimed we ""did"" the skywalk) - I insisted on a full refund - so I got my money back but WASTED a lot of time.We saw plenty of glaciers using the GyPySy guide driving on the icefields parkway and again on our helicopter tour.Skip this - it is far more aggravation than it is worth."
"The customer service from the guides taking you on the buses and on the ice were absolutely fabulous. I am rubbish at remembering names otherwise I would give them a shout out. The only disappointment was the manager who drove one of the buses and the skywalk is not at all what we were expecting - plus a long wait for buses here. Although amazing to get on the glacier, it is a lot of money to stand on a glacier for maybe 20mins in basically a frozen car park. I definitely wouldn't pay to do it again."
"The Columbia Icefields are spectacular. So many to see that you cannot possibly photograph them all. Try to go on the Ice Explorer which will take you on to the glacier. Wear sturdy, nonslip shoes and dress for cold as the wind can get strong."
The trip onto the ice in the massive Ice Explorer is really a once in a lifetime experience. We were lucky to be there on a non-windy day and it was quite pleasant. We were told that if the wind is blowing - which it usually is - the breeze off the ice can make it extremely cold.Note: don't waste your money getting the combo ticket for the Glacier Skywalk - what used to be a free pull-off the highway for anyone to enjoy is now a Brewster Company tourist rip-off to see basically the same thing you can see from the road. Way overpriced!
"We went to the ice field with a tour company in their super buses and stood on the ice field. It was very cold and windy. People are allowed to drive, park, and walk below the glacier which is what I would do if I had it to do over again."
"Amazing to see a glacier up close. Didn't do the tour due to budget constraints. Parked in the lower carpark and there is then a short climb up to view the glacier. Beautiful views all around. Easy drive from Jasper, further to drive from Banff. One of the must see stops if you are in the area."
Where to start. The Athabasca glacier was phenomenal and the skywalk amazing!! Our ice explorer driver Cas (hope I spelled it right) was informative and funny and a great driver! This is a very must see for all traveling the icefield parkway. The skywalk is great and neat to look down 850 feet through the glass! Brewster travel did a fantastic job making this a must see site.
The glacier was immense by description. We didn't get on any tour to go on it as we had gone to several glaciers elsewhere. We only walked up to the edge of the ice.
"We parked at the base and did the short walk up to the glacier. It was a neat little stop but there wasn't much to see. It may be more interesting if you did the glacier walk or bus tour on the actual glacier, so if this is a spot that really interests you, look in to those activities (located in the centre across from the glacier).There are informational boards along the way which provide some information on the glacier and markers showing how the glacier has receded over time, which was interesting."
"on the day we were there we could not get ticket to go on the ice-field but stayed around it and took loads of photos ,, it looked amazing from the viewing area we were at,"
"Don't miss this! You drive to a large visitor center and board a bus which takes you part way up a glacier to where you board an ""ice cat"", a large bus-like vehicle on caterpillar wheels. The ice cat takes you up onto a glacier where you can get out and walk around for about 20 minutes. Glaciers all around you... it was a beautiful sunny day, temps in the 80's, which added to our experience. Not sure if I would have enjoyed it as much if it had been cold, windy, drizzling or snowing. Just sayin'... The only reason I gave this attraction a ""4"" is because of the complicated confusing way that you have to deal with to get your tickets, then find the right line to get into. Pure chaos! We almost missed our tour because of the confusion, and we had pre-reserved on line! Stood in the wrong line for over 20 minutes, just because the ""will-call"" line was not identified by any signage."
When you see the signs indicating where the Glacier was in 1835 you get a sense of the immensity of this incredible natural wonder . At the same time you see how climate change has an impact on our environment ....scary and beautiful . No need to pay for a bus on yo the Glacier itself if you're on a budget: you can walk right up to the edge for free:)
"Stop here and give yourself a break from driving and a little exercise walking up the rocky hillside to the ice field! Free parking but you may have to park across the road at the other tourist trap center but you can park very close to the beginning of the interpretive path up to the ice field, signs show how the glacier had receded and info is posted about the area and the glacier. You can only go on to the actual ice field with a guide/tour!"
"I was very surprised that a cute little French girl was driving this enormous ice field vehicle. She was very informative and funny!
I can now state that I actually walked on a Glacier!"
"I didn't know where I could review the entire Icefields Parkway, so here it is. I downloaded the Gypsy App on my iPhone and wow, what fun. It covers the entire drive from Lake Louise to Jasper and back again. The app tracks where you are and tells you where to turn off to see the can't-miss sites and also which ones you CAN skip if you are short on time. I can't tell you how many great little hikes (e.g. Beauty Creek/Stanley Falls) that I would never have stopped for if it had not been for the app. It also tells you some of the history of the area as you are driving through. The entire Icefields Parkway is great, but the app made it so much better an experience. By the way, I did not do the glacier tour--I just hiked on the opposite side of the road to get close to the glacier. I just felt like the tour was too long a wait and too touristy, but I didn't go, so I can't speak from experience."
The scenery im this area is magic and the icefield is a must for a visit. Lots of people there.late sept so ptebooking a must. Good gift shop and restaurants
"This is a well-organized attraction, and one much in demand. Be sure you make a reservation ahead of time otherwise you'll be in for quite a wait.The registration center is equipped with indoor bathrooms, a restaurant, and a gorgeous viewing porch upstairs where you can wait for your turn to walk on the ice fields.First, you are taken by motorcoach up to the ice field staging area where you transfer to one of the mega-giant ice tractors. These machines are designed to withstand sub-zero temperatures and to crunch their way through ice with enough traction to avoid sliding. They transport you onto the ice field, where you can walk around and view the terrain close up. Unlike the pictures that look nice and smooth, the actual ice field is rough, with crevices and upheavals. In patches, you'll see the beautiful deep blue of the glacier ice beneath.I'm told most days you don't have to dress like NanNuk of the North, but our day was brutally cold! Blue-blue skies, puffy white clouds, and a wind that cut right through you. My recommendation? Wear layers, a hat, boots, and gloves."
"Recently my mom, sister and niece traveled to Banff and the surrounding areas for a fun week of sightseeing and relaxation. We started ""girls getaway"" trips a couple years ago and go to different destinations at least once a year. Our first full day was amazing...went to lake Louise and canoed and then hit up lake Moraine for its breathtaking, beautiful views. We shopped downtown banff and had a nice dinner. The following day we decided to venture to Jasper as we had heard it was amazing. We knew the weather forecast wasn't the greatest but decided to go regardless. We got to our first stop and decided to do the skywalk. It was extremely cloudy so we weren't sure we would see anything. I asked the girl selling tickets what she thought and if we would even be able to see anything because of the intense cloud coverage. She responded by saying ""she didn't know what kind of views would be on the other side."" As we made our way to the top of the mountain, we started immediately laughing in complete shock. We literally could not see a thing 3 feet in front of us. My advice to anyone traveling around the area when there is rain, snow and heavy cloud coverage, save your money and DON'T spend over a $100 to see NOTHING. Very disappointed that they would even sell tickets! Sad."
Interesting stop off on ice fields parkway. Would definitely recommend stopping for views of the glaciers.
"We booked this tour on our anniversary. I loved the glacier but the people got to me. I brought my camera and tripod trying to take pictures of it but other tourists had no respect and would step in front of the camera then wonder why you would get frustrated. Yes, I was off to the side and by myself but people still stood in front of my shot. Eventually I got my pictures but I had to start to get rude myself in order to get them. I definitely recommend going on this to see the amazing glaciers before we can't see them anymore but be prepared for lots of people."
We did this trip as part of our organised tour but looks very expensive.Andrew who drove the ice bus was pretty funny the seatbelt joke caught most of us out but his sense of humour was infectious and he had the whole bus laughing at various parts of the run.If you can afford hit give it a go.
"The history and geology of glacier is fascinating. If you have the extra time, take the bus tour onto the glacier. It will just give you a fuller experience. But if you are short on time or money, do the short hike to the glacier. It's windy and cold, but beautiful and powerful."
We enjoyed the drive on this beautiful road...would have been nicer without the smoke from all the fires though. Enjoyed the trip up to the glacier....sad that has receded so much over the years. The glacier once was clear down to the road.
"We traveled to the ice fields and took the bus and then the ""ice machine"", basically a very large bus with huge, wide tractor type tires up onto the ice field itself. It was a beautiful experience but so cold few people got out. I did and was almost blown away. Our tour director said it was the first time they did not encourage people to go out and walk on the ice fields. The view was gorgeous."
"The beauty of nature is perfect here. However, the visitor center is very commercial (tour tickets, restaurants, shopping) with little educational information on glaciers. Park employees are available for information, and the movie had spectacular scenery (but not worth the wait when the outdoor scenery is plenty spectacular)."
We had wanted to come here for years & finally did it. What an experience of constant beauty. But be careful not to rubber neck as much as you are tempted. Pull over to view more carefully & take photos
Great main building to purchase tickets with restaurants well organised and efficient. You catch a bus to take you to the Sky Walk which is just breath taking - so awesome - lots of information on how it was constructed and maintained fabulous!
We hiked up a gravelly hill to view glacier from the bottom. Others took a bus trip up and right onto it where people could get out and stand in a designated circle. No crevasses there. The movie inside the building is boring.
"Due to heavy snowfall, the road on the glacier had to be cleared, once they could send the coaches up it had caused a 3 hour delay. Our trip was booked for 13:30 and at 13:00 they started sending up the backlog for the 10:15, 10:30 trips. Because of this the delay meant we had to leave. We were a coach tour and had to get to our next destination. We had come from the UK so please be aware this could happen to you too. Disappointing to say the least!"
"Must do on the way from Banff to Jasper , amazings views and lifetime experience , takes you only 2 hours including the skywalk"
"We booked this, as we'd heard it was a very popular attraction, and certainly you would not want to just turn up and try to get a ticket as it would be a very long wait.This was just too touristy for us, way too many people, too expensive for what it was and we would not recommend it. We have been on the Franz Joseph Glacier in New Zealand and that was a way better and a more authentic natural experience.On this Glacier Adventure you are trucked on to a graded section of the glacier where you are allowed to get out and walk around for 20 minutes, in a safe area, with lots and lots of other people from other buses. All up, including the sky walk (which was a bit more enjoyable), this activity took us 3 hours - time which we would have preferred to spend anywhere else on the icefield parkway."
"Our family group enjoyed (very much) our tour of the Athabasca Glacier with Peter and his adorable dog, George. It was informative, beautiful, and other-worldly, and we could really understand better the effects of climate change! Thank you, Peter!"
Sept 23. We took the ice field tour today with Sandra in Brewster 545. Very good tour and Sandra was entertaining and informative. The experience was great and the glacier/ice field impressive
We took the parking lot near the glacier and walked on the rocks towards it. It was very picturesque.. Just in to see how it evolves and the debris it leaves. There is a very nice visitor center as well as a place where you could take photographs from from a distance. There are also several options of tours that you could take to go and ride a vehicle and walk on the glacier. A very Photogenic areaAnother must do.
We arrived on snowy day and views we're spectacular. We did not tour the icefields but saw the icefield from their parking lot and marveled in the scenery. Well worth the drive.
"We originally planned to pay for the on ice glacier tour, however the low fog prevented even seeing the glacier so we passed by. On our way back through we noticed the parking lot at the base of the glacier. The walk up the hill wasn't too long and the view of the glacier was excellent! I would suggest this option to anyone!"
This is an awesome glacier that can be seen from the car park. The car park is full of tourist buses and is quite commercial. Various excursions are available at this site. Good little coffee shop.
"Remember to bring your water bottle. You are able to drink right from the glacier during this excursion. Dress warm too - remember, you are walking on ice!"
We had a fabulous visit to the Athabasca Glacier. Our driver Patrick was very funny & very loud & kept us entertained on the drive there. Being on the glacier itself was brilliant. A once in a lifetime thing to do. Loved it.
"We booked through Brewsters who we found to run a very slick operation. It meant we jumped all the queues. The guide, Patrick Hoffman, was very informative and also answered all my questions. I do have concerns though about the impact of all the tours up on to the Icefield."
"We pre-booked and thus had no problem with queues. Weather perfect. Trip on the ice bus very interesting - our driver/guide Patrick ""Hasselhof"" supplied very interesting (and entertaining) information about the vehicle, the maintenance of the road and glacier surface and of course, the glacier fields.Being on a glacier at very low temperatures is a unique experience for a South African. I would have liked more time there, with less people. The buses came and went much too often and I did not like the tight schedule of getting there, taking a walk, taking a photo and then back on the bus.Otherwise.... awesome!!"
The only way to experience this is to drive on to the Athabasca Glacier in one of the snow buses.The visitor centre is just off the main road where you are transferred by coach to the base of the Glacier. You then board the snow bus which takes you onto the glacier. The bus itself is an incredible engineering triumph and the feats it performs beats any roller coaster. The whole journey the driver provided an excellent running commentary about the bus and more importantly the glacier and the Icefield.Getting off the bus was like stepping into a wind tunnel with the katabatic winds blowing icily off the Icefield. It was also very slippery - after all it is ice!The views around were superb and the experience breathtaking and educational
"Fantastic unbelievable views, we were 1st up there so less crowded we even got a bottle of the water which we have in our fridge in uk"
"We went onto The Glacier and stood on 800 feet thick ice , amazing . The ride that took us down there was unbeliable , so was our driver , I could do with one of these to drive round The M25 ."
"Wow. Fantastic . amazing . This is well worth the visit. We were taken in the tour by a young French guide but have forgotten his name. He was informative, polite, funny and factual. The snow mobile we went up in was brilliant . Well worth the visit"
I've seen ice fields in Norway and been to the Switz alps - this place is stunning. There are likely to be few more beautiful locations on earth. Simply breath-taking
"We visited the ice fields on a day when you could not see very far because of the snow coming down, but we still had a great time and the driver made the experience wonderful. I can't remember his name, but he called himself Super _____ . He had a lot of information and made it fun for everyone on the tour."
"First place in Canada we really felt like tourists. Very crowded even though it was supposedly lower season. Couldn't book in for a glacier tour without a 3-hour plus wait. Not really anywhere you can kill time. Only 3 degrees outside. Decided to go for a walk to the glacier and head on. Which was fine. Snow one minute, sun the next. Very popular place. Best to book ahead if you can guess when you are going to be there."
"There's lots of hikes you can do around the ice fields (Parker ridge trail is meant to be good). As it was snowing we did a short hike up to the toe of the glacier. I know people go on guided bus tours here. If you have the energy, just do a hike around the area. The views are great!"
One of the most exillerating experiences I've ever had!! Take your time and keep stopping to see the various glaciers not just the Athabasca. Creation is amazing. The size of the glacier and the moraines it has dumped are amazing to comprehend. Difficult to describe other than to look for the little buses on the ice
"I expected more from this tour, especially from the Skywalk. It's basically a fancy lookout, but you can stop 20 metres away in the parking lot for free and will get a better view.I don't get how this company got permission to run those monster ""Ice Explorers"" on an already retreating glacier. If you come from a country with mountains you won't see anything new or exciting, you can walk around for 20 minutes on snow/ice with other 4-5 trucks. Have a quick walk from the parking lot instead.The whole ""attraction"" takes one and a half hours if you don't spend much time on the Skywalk. Very-very-very touristy. I would not recommend.Also, avoid the restaurant. We tried to have a soup and a slice of pizza in the Icefield Centre but it was dreadful."
We were on a bus that took us up to a. Second bus to bring us on the ice. We were in a snow storm and couldn't see much. Both drivers talk all the time. We got back on bus and didn't go back to car but told we were going to gift shop and observation platform where were no restroom after no warning. I asked for next bus back but was full. When caught second bus after staff sAid I could go behind a wll the driver joked don't pee on his defeats as many of us had to and there was. Nothing to see in storm. No worth the agony for a small roped area to see and two days before a tourist fell in ice had to be rescued.
Great place to stop on the Ice Field Parkway from Jasper to Banff.Amazing to see the how much the Athabasca Glacier has receded over the years.Can't really get very close- without spending $$$ for a guided tour of the Ice FieldVisitor's center was packed with tons of cars and buses- so we didn't go in.
"I have been to glaciers in New Zealand and seriously expected more form this place. However, there was not only a continuous line of people waking up but also buses on the glacier itself - which I thought disrespectful given that there is worry that by 2050 it may be no more. The walk to the nose was fine but really not that much to see - but probably in the winter it is more dramatic. The visitor centre is crowded with coach parties and does have a toilet though it was dirty when we were there."
"If you want the experience of standing on a glacier, this trip is worth a 5. If your objective is something other than that, you might question the value. The snowcat ride itself was fun. Tip: Other than the last 2 or 3 trips to the glacier each day, you have to purchase a combined ticket to the glacier and the Glacier Skywalk. We weren't interested in the Skywalk and our trip to the glacier alone saved us about $30 per ticket."
"We walked on the glacier with a guide and it was an amazing experience. Would recommend. The bus drove onto the ice, allowed you to walk round the bus, then get back on. Not as good an experience as wearing crampons and walking on the ice."
"Could not take a ride our bad luck it was raining when we reached there.
It's quite amazing tho in spite I f the rain we dnjoyed the view from our car"
"We love to drive and sight see.We have driven all over the world.The Icefields Parkway is (without hesitation) the most stunningly beautiful highway we ever drove.Gorgeous lakesBreathtaking mountainsStop as often as you can and drive slowly.Don't zip past this!Waterfowl Lake was our favorite - but take the unmarked path just east of the marked path. A short walk through the woods, then...oh my goodness...the most beautiful and pristine lake you have ever seen!"
"We went in the centre first and were impressed how lovely it was considering it's in the middle of nowhere. It has its own parking but if you want to walk closer to the glacier, head back onto 93 then take the turn almost opposite the centre. Keep right to go into the car park. The walk up to the glacier is quite steep and rocky and takes about half an hour round trip. It was a bit disappointing that you couldn't get nearer to the glacier but understand that there are crevasses and unsafe areas. The information boards are interesting especially those that show where the glacier came to in past years."
"This place was one of the highlights of our whole trip. We took the tour leaving from the Icefields Centre, where there is plenty of parking. First, a bus takes you from the centre to an area very close to the glacier. Then you change your mode of transport to a purpose built vehicle taking you out to the glacier. We were able to walk around on a small area of the glacier for about 20 minutes. Fifteen minutes was ample time for me as it was cold. It felt amazing to be there, and to see the vastness of the landscape. At the same time it was difficult to take it all in with so many tourists in a small area. However I am not complaining, as tourist areas should be limited to preserve the environment. Tip - dress warm!"
"Straight across from the Columbia Icefields Discovery centre, you can drive up to a free carpark, get out, and walk up the rough but managable slope to view the tongue of the glacier.There seems to be an independant operator there who will walk you onto the ice if desired (for a fee)Good footwear can make the difference, and the view from this small plateau is rewarding, without engaging in the herded tourist coaches from the Discover centre"
"Never been to a glacier beforeLoaded onto a bus, bundled onto the Ice Explorer all this time dust swirling everywhere, the vehicle is covered in dust , barely see through the windows. There is a water truck parked in corner surely damping ground down would be better than having all this dust blowing everywhereThen you get out and gingerly walk around for all of a 15 minute stay on a slippery ice block A warped humour highlight was seeing a tourist trying to strike a camera pose only to start sliding uncontrolled before been rescued Perhaps we should all stay away and the glacier may stop receding"
"The trip onto the glacier in the big ice mobile is pretty amazing- the terrain is very, very steep at times, and it is amazing that there is a vehicle that can do this. The driver was extremely entertaining. It was incredible to be able to step out onto a glacier that has been in existence for tens of thousands of years, and to be see the incredible rate of melting, and realize that it may be gone in our lifetime. Definitely worth a look-see."
"The Columbia Icefield is but one part of the whole Icefields Parkway. The actual icefield is a huge area overlapping a number of mountains. The Icefields Discovery Centre has an excellent movie available for free in the lower part of the center that introduces people to what it really is and how large it is.But the Parkway extends from Jasper to Lake Louise. There is a lot of beautiful scenery to take in, and you might see wildlife along the way. We saw a black bear. Other than the obvious Discovery Centre, there are various activities available there, and there are miles of hiking trails; everything from short and easy to overnight and rugged. Accommodations are limited, so booking in advance is critical if you are not camping or are in an RV. Technically, you could just park your car in many places and just ""wander off into the woods,"" but that is not a good idea! Bears abound, including grizzlies. Bear spray is good idea if you intend to go hiking inland, and it is recommended to hike with a group. (But if you hike a lot, you probably already know this.) There are many things, though, for the more touristy types. You can walk on a glacier (albeit for $80+!) You can walk up to a family friendly glacier viewpoint for free, across from the Discovery Centre. At places along the Parkway, are other viewpoints, stores, campgrounds, waterfalls, and scenery that almost overloads your senses. Everything you pay for is expensive, but the scenery is free. As for towns, Jasper is more low key than Lake Louise. I would recommend staying in Jasper if you can. If you want more of the ""icefields experience,"" then the Glacier View Inn is a good choice, but it is not easy to get in and out of. If you are a guest, parking is by the tourist buses, and you have to walk across a pedestrian bridge and through a crowded lobby to access it. Check in is 3 p.m. The rooms are not air conditioned, but are comfortable, and some have a loft, so they are family friendly. Prices are around $300 per night. Staff is helpful and friendly."
"Two visits - two days in a row. We did a drive from Jasper to take pics because the weather was clear. Took photos from the deck of the info centre. The following day was our drive from Jasper to Lake Louise so we stopped again, parking at the glacier carpark and walked up to the edge of the ice.Another sunny clear day and what a gorgeous sight."
This was a truly great attraction and very informative. Just wish they had just the icefield bus tour and not having to do the sky walk as well. They are now putting both together and sent us to the sky walk that we were not so interested in. They could use little more organization for their line up etc having to stand in line for long and no or very little seating area while you wait for your schedule time
"A great tour onto the glacier, well organised. take layers, a hat and some gloves. It's cold up there! Definitely would recommend."
A must see when visiting Banff and Jasper. Everywhere we looked there was snow on the peaks. The mountains are huge here.
very nice and would be worth paying to take a bus ride to the glacier at least once but there are soooo many people it makes it soooo unpleasant even in September i recommend going on the most off season as possible unless you dont mind throngs of people it is also very very expensive to do any of the tours associated with the ice-fields driving through for a stop is really good
"Not sure what was better, the drive to the ice field, which was very scenic, or the trip on the ice field itself. The only downside is the queuing for the buses to take you to the giant snow buses. The ride on the glacier takes about 15 minutes each way and once there you are given about 15 minutes on the glacier to take photos. Although the ice is scratched to make is less slippery, one is walking on ice so appropriate footwear needs to be worn. Food back at the lodge is good but the cafeteria gets extremely crowded and prices are not cheap. But, if in Alberta, this is a must-do."
"We went on the Columbia Icefield Glacier Adventure Tour on a rainy day that made the glacier very slippery, but the experience was very informative and worthwhile. Our driver gave a lot of information about the geology of the glaciers, and the ride on the Ice Explorer was a lot of fun – a very unique experience that we would recommend. The visit to the Glacier Skywalk was also nice and provided some great photo opportunities, and although the Skywalk is not situated right on top of the actual ice one can see the glacier in the distance. Nevertheless, we would recommend it."
"Columbia ice field is great place to visit, beautiful views, cold weather during summer, it was a great experience visiting this place however just remember if u get sick there no medical facilities available at this place, I was sick with stomach pain and I had to bear the pain until I reach jasper town, it was terrible pain so be careful ThanksSD"
"My Son, his girlfriend and I took the Brewster tour out to the glacier. So Worth It! We knew in advance to bring empty bottles that we filled with glacier melt water. What we saw of The Columbia Icefield comprises I believe 4 or 5 glaciers. They will all be gone, so the prediction goes, in 100 years. It's overwhelmingly beautiful to see this. I have no words but am so grateful that we were able to get here and experieince this."
Whether you decide to hike it or take the tour you will not be disappointed. The views are amazing. Being on the Ice Field is awe inspiring and a really cool experience. If you get cold make sure to bundle up. Definitely recommend!
"An absolute must see if you're anywhere near the area. The drive from Banff up to Jasper along the Ice Field Highway is filled with ""wow"" views almost constantly. A few short hikes off pullout stops that are well worth the time. This is a route that you need to spend time on. Can't count the number of large glaciers we saw and the mountains are spectacular! The lakes look almost artificial with their green/blue hues."
We booked a one way coach trip. Recommended as can dsee without driving snd they know best placrs. Skywalk particularly worth doing. Not cheap but as part of trip...
"This was a unique experience not to be missed. Our guide, Maddie, was hilarious as well as a great driver on our Ice Explorer."
Definitely worth the visit. Riding on the vehicle on the glacier was different. Our bus driver explained a lot about the bus and the glacier. Then walking on it was an experience. I took baby steps so I wouldn't fall. Very slippery of course!
"the sight of the columbia ice fields and the opportunity to ride and walk on them is awesome.
the way they were formed and the way they are receding is amazing"
"Walking on ice (a glacier) in early September! Wow! A great experience, operated by a well trained staff, in an extremely efficient manner. Our bus drivers were competent and entertaining and helpful in getting old folks like us on and off the buses, especially the ""ice explorers"".The only negative was the parking, especially when approaching from the south, lots of bus spaces and few for autos and no signs that there was a car lot around the building.The Icefields Parkway was awesome...incredible sights...mountains and lakes and waterfalls!"
"If I had the ability I'd prefer to hike up to the point where the buses drop you off on the glacier, but I can't. This is the only way I can get to this location and I'm glad I did. Our guide was funny and informative. Its hard to imagine being in the area and not taking this in. Careful, it's slippery !! It's snow and ice after all."
"This was a brilliant opportunity for us , yes expensive but you are contributing to the economy and the environment. The trip lasts about 1 hour 20 but great fun, the guides are great and the experience of being on the ice is unforgettable."
It is so gorgeous and amazing. We walked over to the toe of the glacier. We also did the Columbia Ice Field glacier tour. But the drive through the ice fields is amazing.
"Stopped twice at the main visitor centre on our travel up and down Icefield parkway to and from Jasper. On our return journey we did the foot of glacier walk from the foot of glacier car park. Interesting to see how far the glacier had eroded in past 40 years. Visitor centre car park can be busy as can centre, we just stopped for coffees (the most expensive ones in all our 3 week trip). Views on our second visit were much better as the wildfire smoke had cleared."
"The Icefields Parkway is an impressive drive and a stop at the Center will give you a good view of the ice field. Thecweather was poor on the day if our visit so we took some pictures, and warmed up in the Center. The ice explorer is expensive and requires a combo ticket with the Skywalk which did not look that impressive."
"Perfect sunny day after days of bushfire smoke. Sandra, 25 yrs old, was our French- Canadian guide who took our grp out on the snow bus. She was informative and pleasant, which added to the trip. No matter what the weather is, wear a windbreaker and grippy shoes. Much of the ice is quite slick. We were on the ice for only 20 min but well worth it."
This sight cannot be missed. After a few rainy days we were lucky enough the sky was clear. Blue skies made it so much more impressive. It is cold here! Wear layers! And seriously... there were people wearing flip flops... you will be walking on ice!
"This was a cool life experience, and the tour made it easy and safe. The SnowBus itself was interesting - basically buses that are tricked out with giant, soft tires that keep them from slipping on the ice and limiting the damage they do to the glacier (according to our driver). The glacier itself is beautiful. Not surprisingly, it's FREEZING and windy so if you don't have warm gear, buy a cute sweatshirt in the gift shop before going. We brought an empty water bottle so that we could get some of the glacier water and have a sip of it later - another fun experience. Well worth it."
"Nice walk up the hill to the toe, not too strenuous except for the altitude. You can't get all the way to the toe, the river coming from the glacier blocks your path. Don't go off the trail without a guide as they have had several deaths. Great views and nice to see it up close for free."
"We wanted to check out the glacier up close, but were presented with a profound issue: there was no singular option available to ONLY check out the glacier. In order to do so, you'll be paying a premium of having to package it with the SkyWalk, or more."
Its fun being on the glacier and taking photos. Worth a one time visit perhaps not another. Their big buses with huge tires are fun too.
"A must do! Brewster Tours make the whole experience very easy & the staff are friendly & informative. Our driver to the Glacier was Tim, who was excellent. The weather for our visit was perfect, so the brilliant sunshine picked out all the Glacier's many colours. We would strongly recommend the experience so thank you all!"
"At Columbia, we booked the tour of the Athabasca Glacier. It's just one of many glaciers that's fed off of the Columbia Ice Field. The tour takes you on this massive ice-bus that takes you up and onto the glacier itself. Then they let you out and you get to walk around the glacier itself. It was something unique, which we hadn't done before. It was amazing how cold it was on the glacier itself - the temperature really dropped quickly as we were on the glacier.Doesn't the panoramic picture look like a scene from North Westeros just beyond the wall; winter is here and the White Walkers and coming!"
We stayed at the hotel next to the glacier took the first bus out to the glacier wow that was great Take your water bottle to fill with Glacer water Great time of year as still lots of snow on the mountains & the ice was melting on the lakes so made for some great photos
"The glacier is very impressive. You get to ride on the weird buses to get up onto the glacier.Don't expect to go for a hike when you are the glacier, it's a marked off area you can stroll around. Good for selfies and a bit of a slippery walk.The guides on the busses were good, provided us with good information about the glacier and how it's going to disappear :-)Glad I've done it, but it's a lot of money for a relatively short time."
Our views were not spectacular because of the burning forest fires. The air is all smoky. Still you should definitely hike up to the edge of the glacier. It is a steep hike but well worth it in explaining global warming and what is happening to our Glacier system. Look for the sign that shows you where the glacier was in1982 compared to now. It is staggering.
Took trip with Brewsters fro Lake Louise. Trip on ice field was part of the day. Had about 15 minutes on the ice which wasn't enough time as there was so many people up thereCollected some glacial water. It tasted goodNot really cold on the glacier but it was a sunny dayInteresting facts given by the driver of the ice vehicle. Forget his name but he was AustralianAre there no Canadians working in Canada?!!!
"Line ups for tickets are too long of a wait. Just walk out and explore yourself, faster and stay as long as you want"
We did not take the Icefield tour but walked up to the toe of the Athabasca ice glacier. There were many people there and there was ample parking. Looking at the Glacier was a sight to behold . Took many pictures and everyone there loved it. Let's hope it's stays for many more centuries.It certainly is humbling.A must do.
This is a very unique place in Alberta along the Icefields Parkway (Hwy 93). We came along on a bright clear day that quickly turned to white out conditions along the road near the glaciers. Walking toward the Athabasca glacier was a challenge as the wind tore down the valley. In spite of the receding ice field the Columbia and Athabasca glaciers are still impressive.
"I visited here 20 years ago, it's just unbelievable how far it's receded. It's full of people looking for a unique experience amongst thousands of others also looking for a unique experience. Each footstep ruins it. There are piles and piles of rocks stacked on top of one another, seems to be a popular activity, but it ruins the view."
We expected some type of adventure going out to the Icefield and ended up on a bus to the icefield then onto a an Ice Cat to get on the glacier. We spent about 20 minutes on the glacier which really just looked like dirty ice after a heavy snowstorm. The area was about 50 meters square with about 200 people so it wasn't particularly exciting or adventurous. We continued to the skywalk which was excellent. The engineering was ingenious and the exhibits and information about the area and the wildlife was exceptionally well prepared. Lacking however were toilets as this was the last phase of a 3 hour tour where many of the participants were elderly and female.
The tickets are structured such that we had to do more than we really wanted. We didn't want to do the Sky Walk really but had to pay for it so we did go. Good views but not great if you don't like heights! The walk on the glacier was excellent but there were so many people there we always felt part of a crowd and couldn't really get much space around us. Glad we did it but wouldn't do it again and definitely not at those prices.
"The visit to the glaicer was a great experience the trip on the ice explorer was in its self was great going to the ice field,we had all the seasons of the year has well rain,show,thunder and lighting and sunshine.The people who work there were very good in looking after our safety.One great trip.Go for it.PS That a bottle with you and drink the ice cold water from the melting ice."
We felt glacier ice when we stayed on top for about 20 Minutes. The Glacier adventure all terrain vehicle ride was memorable experience. Book in advance otherwise you will not get your preferred time. Go early to the line up and make sure you get in to your vehicle when it is coming back. otherwise you have to wait for an empty one. .
"Stunning opportunity to be walking on the Columbia Ice Field and the associated glaciers. Involves multiple bus transfers in the price to actually motor up to the edge of the glacier. Then are able to walk very carefully on the glacier in certain areas that are safe. This was in September when temps in the cities were in the 80's (unusual). The glacier and the Ice Field is at about 7,000 feet and feels much colder with the wind blowing across the huge area of ice. (The Ice Field itself is about 200 square miles I believe, but you cannot see it all or walk on it all for sure.)This opportunity is clearly a time to make a change in your trip to visit and experience walking on a glacier. Due to climate change and the warming of the atmosphere driving the loss of the size of the glacier every year, this opportunity may not be there for more than five to ten years.Recommend highly that you make the time and committment to get here!"
You ride out onto the glacier on a machine made for running on ice and step out onto an 800 foot thick glacier. Be prepared for cold winds and ice crystals in the face.
"On our trip to Calgary we signed up for a tour with Brewster Tours. We made our way north to the Columbia Ice Field. Upon our arrival we had lunch in the visitors center and then waited for the call for our bus to make the way over to the Ice Cat Vehicles. We transferred to the Ice Cat & made our way up to the glacier. Our ""Cat"" driver Nick was very informative about the glacier and the area we were seeing. He knew the history of the area and all the details about the glacier. the ride in the vehicle was quite amazing. we were given about a half an hour to walk around the glacier and take pictures. It was crowded but we managed to find a couple spots to take great pictures with no ""extras"" in the background. I would up load pictures, but still have an issue with TA locking my computer when uploading photos. A definite must see when in Alberta."
"There is a lot of hanging around to get on the bus, but it's very well organised. It's worth all the waiting for an experience few of us will get to do in this ever changing world. It does make you think when the glacier is shrinking by meters every year. We must protect our beautiful world or our grandchildren won't be able to experience this fantastic opportunity. We went on a really hot afternoon and I was fine in a tea shirt, but take layers as it was cold when our friends went up in the morning. The cafe offers coffee and snacks on the 2nd floor of the main lodge and it wasn't too expensive."
"A great 2 hour tour, informative and fun guide. Strict rules on where and how long you can be on the Glacier, rug up because it can get cold."
"We visited the collumbia icefields in August. Although weather was in low 70's in Lake Louise - were able to walk on glazier. We did this activity in the rain so as not to waste a day of hiking. Was fun and informative - but not a ""must see"". There are so many gorgeous places in the area - if weather is clear suggest hiking. If cloudy it is a very good option."
"We travelled with Bruce up to the Glacier, he was most informative and good value. They were very safety conscience of there customers which was reassuring as I was a bit nervous of falling on the ice."
A few hours drive but well worth the visit to drink from the glaciers and walk along the ice whilst thinking you've just come from 35 deg heat.. and you think parts of it arte 10k years old.. same ticket you also get to see the Skywalk... give yourself 3 hours and enjoy.
Our generation should take advantage of the fact that this is still here. I can't recommend it enough. It was a great experience and we were treated nicely by the crew. The facilities are nice. I can't recommend it enough.
"We dropped by to see the Columbia Ice Fields. We drove up to the parking by the glacier and walked up to where we could experience this amazing spectacle.The walk was a bit challenging, rocky and somewhat slippery in some spots. Even though it was summer, the winds that were coming off the ice made it feel like winter. Beautiful views are to be experienced. Wear something warm and take something for your head. I saw some folks in T-shirts and shorts which was amusing as I don't think they knew what to expect.Unfortunately due to warming conditions and the retreat of the ice, there was a river between us and the ice field so it was roped off. Still got some great pictures.If you want to go to the ice fields farther up, there is buggy tours that take you up there. Just have to go to the visitors center and get tickets."
Drove from Jasper to Golden - just stunning. Stop lots - enjoy every view - absolutely awesome. I would drive it if you can - I really think it would have driven me mad to be in a bus - you need the freedom to make your own choices. Take a picnic and stop on one of the many road side stop overs with amazing views! The main glacier stop doesn't look like its going to be anything special - but walk up to the top - its cool!
Having the opportunity to walk on the glacier is unique and we really enjoyed it. Nice view of the glacier and nice view of the surrounding mountains.
"The ice fields were spectacular in every way. We took the Ice Explorer vehicle up on the glacier. Sam our driver did an excellent job of telling us about the glacier and what we would experience. It was sunny but the wind was brisk and though the day was warm, it was freezing on the glacier."
"Being driven on the ice fields in a purpose built vehicle driven by a 19 year old female was a great experience. She handled the large vehicle like a pro. we felt safe and in awe of her skill and the glacia. Some adventures are so personal only the participant can value and grade, this was one suce experience for us."
We took a bus onto the glacier for a very interesting and exciting adventure on the glacier. The wheels of the bus were about 5 feet tall! It was awesome!
I would drive up and down Icefields Parkway all day long but I do not see the allure of being bused up to the glacier to stand on ice. Museum was very lacking in information on the natural environment that surrounds the area. Make your own tour and just stop in the many pull-outs
I booked a pass which allowed a visit to this and three other places. It also allowed me to book a dtae/time for my visit which I would recommend others do as the place does get very busy. There is plenty to look at in the visitors centre before you are taken up to the glacier via two buses. Your drivers and guides do a great job in telling you about the glacier and you are given around 20 - 25 minutes to walk on the glacier and take photos. We took a empty water bottle up to get some galcier water also which takes extremely nice. It is colder up there than at the visitors centre so do take something to cover your arms. A memorable experience.
"We saw this 21 years ago but since we were heading to Jasper, decided to stop. We did not do any of the tours this time as had done it previously and would have been over a 3 hour wait so obviously, advance booking would be in your best interest. We are anxious to compare the photos from this trip to 21 years ago and see just how much the glacier has changed/receded. Be prepared for lots of people!!"
We did a Brewster tour with driver tour guide Mitch. The highlight was getting onto the Columbia Icefields. It is interesting to see all the glaciers
Well you get on a bus to the sight from the visitor centre then massive trucks crawl up the glacier where you can have limited half hour exploration as mostly it is cordoned off. Can drink from the melted ice in small channels. Not for the infirm as obviously very slippery so wear appropriate shoes. The guide we had (they are all young students) was hilarious but still informative. Yes its a tourist trap but we enjoyed it anyway!
This ice field is well worth a visit whilst it still exists. We did a trip on the ice but sadly our guide (M) seemed more concerned with performing to the crowd about her own heritage and group banter and so this did spoil our experience - I am sure a group of 18-21 year olds would love her but I did feel she did not treat the majestic surroundings with the respect they deserved.Rating - ice fields 5/5Tour guide - 0/5 (I am sure other tour guides may have been more respectful and able to differentiate their delivery according to the group they have)
"What an experience walking on the Athabasca glacier. The Brewster tour takes you on these mega buses to the Athabasca glacier, where they allow around 20 minutes to walk on the glacier. I would highly recommend taking empty water bottles to the glacier to fill them with the flowing water from the glacier. The water is so pure and so amazing that I just kept drinking it with my hands. If people intend to do the walking tour for the glacier, I would highly recommend a guided tour as the unguided could be dangerous given the depth of the crevices formed in the glacier. Also the glacier has receded quite a bit and the tours will probably stop within the next 5-10 years, so people wanting to do this, should go there within this period. An absolute must do."
"We did the Brewster tour which was well organised, the trucks to take you out on the ice were an experience in themselves (especially if you have young children). Views on the ice were good. We had c 30 mins up there and you are kept in a fairly small area so you are definitely ready to come back by the end of 30 mins."
Driving along the highway you pass right by this glacier. We didn't do the drive tour onto the ice but rather parked at the bottom car park and walked as close as we could to the bottom of the glacier.
We enjoyed our moment in time on the glacier but at the rate it's melting it may not be for much longer but it is a very informative trip out on the ice. A strange sense of remoteness comes with the trip out there even though you are surrounded by others.
"It's a must see place if you came to Banff. The views is stunning, but the wind was strong, so it very cold, although the temperature was 5 degree. And I filled a bottle with that clear water from the glacier, it said that 10 thousand year old water will make you younger. I have to mansion Nike, the guide and driver, he is funny, and made all visitors lungh aloud."
"We chose to walk to the glacier from the gravel parking lot. The trail is rough in places and has lots of rock to walk over. The trail is on an incline going up to the glacier. You can not actually get onto the glacier from the walking trail. There is water that separates the trail and the glacier itself. Transportation to the glacier is available at the visitor center which allows you to travel on the glacier by their vehicle tour or to take a walking tour. We did not do this, therefore I do not know the cost of this. We were there in late August and it was ""cool"", we wore a light jacket."
"We booked our tickets online before travelling to Alberta from Ontario, we were staying in Banff, so decided to do a day trip up to the Ice Fields. It is definetly a day trip from Banff, 2.5hr drive each way and the entire experience with Sky walk and all takes about 2.5hrs.The ice fields were breathtaking, the snow cat machine ride to get there was great, our driver Maddy was super cool and gave us lots of info about the area. I brought a thermos to fill up with fresh glacier water so that I could enjoy it for the rest of the day.Such a great experience, for me it is a been there done that experience, so would not see myself going again."
"the drive from Lake Louise to Jasper is amazing, not to missed. The mountains are never ending with glaciers everywhere. Do not be in a hurry and check the view behind you sometimes it is the best!"
"Do not miss this drive. Very scenic. There are pull offs for picture taking. When you drive the opposite way, you see different things. The time of day affects what you see. The sun shining on the mountains is breathtaking."
There was quite a steep hike to get to the top to see the ice field but it was well worth it!! It's a pity on the day we went there was a lot of smoke haze so visibility was lower & photos didn't turn out that great
"We drove from Moraine Lake to Jasper through the Parkway. It really provides stunning views, probably better in the other direction though."
There is no doubt that this is a spectacular place and walking on the glacier is truly remarkable. You do have to wonder about the impact of this level of tourism . The skywalk was challenging. The audio of limited interest. Level of detail more suited for school excursion. But the highlight was the horned sheep sightings.
This is a must see before it disappears. Buses take you up to where you meet the Snow Cats which take you up the glacier and you can get out and walk around.
We stopped and walked to the glacier - such an amazing site and to see the time markers to show how much it has receded. Couldn't get into the car park to visit the ice center. Very busy time of year and very busy .
"By all means, the Ice Field Parkway is a not-to-miss roadway. SKIP the Columbia Ice Field experience, unless you want to feel had by a tourist trap."
"One of the truly memorable attractions of my life. Absolutely breathtaking. Great information center with restaurants, information booths and a gift store. Plenty of free parking and a roomy deck with a great view. By all means, make the effort to visit this unique natural attraction."
"We were homeward bound on a Cross Country Road Trip and drove thru Jasper Park to see the ice fields. I was a bit disappointed that the ice has retreated somewhat over the past 30 years but overall, we enjoyed the drive and the Athabasca River. The road is well paved and easy to drive—There was lots of traffic and yet it did not seem congested. There are lots of attractions and places to stop for photos. We stopped at the Athabasca Glacier and got some decent shots without having to walk far. The road is winding and steep in places but seems OK for all vehicles, including large RV’s. We also saw some interesting wildlife including a bear and some mountain goats. We drove about 600 KM’s out of our way to see the ice fields and feel it was worth the time."
"Stopped here on the journey from Jasper to Lake Louise, cannot miss it. The visitors centre was really busy but it was nice. We stopped across the road and did the walk to the toe of the glacier (about 1.8km return I believe? Not far at all!) You cannot stand directly on the Athabasca glacier as there is a small flowing river there from melted ice and it has a rope barrier there. Great sight to see and also really sad, a scary amount has melted in recent years and it is signposted on the walk. We saw people in hats and gloves to do this walk in mid-August (really not necessary, I just wore a good over my t-shirt and I was more than warm enough, my husband had just a t-shirt on and was fine!)."
Probably worth doing once....It's well organised and a slick operation but you are restricted and probably quite rightly for the benefit of the glacier to a few square metres of glacier experience.The drivers are humorous and the experience is educational but I believe a glacier walk either here or in NZ would be more educational.
if you pass by like we did it is ok to see it. For us it was nothing Special (well we are from Switzerland where wer have this too :-) ) it is a glacier where you also can book a tour to go for a walk on it. We did not do it just had a coffee at the restaurant then went on
"Right on the highway between Jasper & Banff you can't miss this sight. The visitor center is large with 2 restaurants and a large deck overlooking the glaciers. You leave for the Skywalk & glacier tour from here. Though you can buy tickets here I recommend you get them ahead online or from your hotel as they were sold out for the day when we arrived. Note that I tried to order online & it said all were booked for the day we were there, but our hotel concierge had no trouble booking tickets for us."
"Beautiful place. There are guided tours that allow you to actually hike on the glacier, but we did not do this due to time constraints. There are warnings that due to elevation, people with heart or lung conditions should be careful. A great place to check out before the glacier disappears forever!"
"When you drive up to the ice field on the special explorer vehicles you notice all the way on to the field the amount of damage being done,the numbers of people and the fumes from the vehicles cannot be helping the ice field from disappearing.Once on the ice the numbers of visitors are crammed into a small area of ice which is understandable however the usual idiots want to destroy as much of the planet because they want a selfie on virgin ice."
The place is very commercial and not at all worth the hype. Considering that Canada and the Rockies have so much natural to offer this place is strictly avoidable. It is more like seeing wild animals in a closed habitat created just besides an African jungle.
The glacier speaks for itself. It is awesome in its scale and beauty. It is also tragic to see how much it has retreated in recent years.The visitors centre is worth a visit too. It has a wonderful panoramic view of the area.We watched a free film in the theatre. The washrooms were clean and extensive to cater for the many guests.
"At the Icefields Visitor Center, you can book your tour on the glacier or do it ahead of time online or by phone with Brewster Travel.Unique experience being on the glacier ... you only have about 20 minutes to explore the glacier in a restricted and inspected safe area. Be prepared, out time on the glacier was limited due to a very cold and blowing ice storm in the middle of July ... luckily, we had rain gear and long pants ... not so lucky were the families in shorts and flip flops"
"The whole experience is fabulous. The journey on the snow coach, walking on the glacier and drinking the glacial water. Try and gat ice grips for the shoes as it makes it easier to walk!"
"When you drive down the Hwy 93 you will automatically drive by the columbia icefield. It is worth stopping at the Centre and climbing the stairs to the viewing platforms to enjoy a fantastic look at the Icefield. The centre itself did not impress me - it is always very packed and especially the washrooms are not always in best shape. If you are good on your feet, drive over to the gravel-parking lot. Park your car and take the walk to the toe of the Glacier. Be aware that you are in higher elevations and you might run out of air on the long climb up. It gives you a good idea, how much the glacier has shrunk throughout the last 100 years and of the dimensions of the glacier."
"Despite passing it twice in the car we didn't take the trip on the 4x4 trucks onto the glacier, though I would have done if it had been made a more inviting prospect. I have walked on glaciers before in New Zealand, but I would have liked to have taken my 8 and 10 year olds up there. Why didn't we go? - firstly the visitors centre was horrific the day we stopped, it was raining so maybe everyone was inside, but the number of bus tours is awful and you sense on a not-so-clear day maybe people are annoyed they took a bus all the way there and it wasn't looking great. We queued for a coffee and it seemed fraught. Secondly, you can't just take the bus to the glacier unless you also pay ($ and time) to take the Skywalk, which I didn't want to do (it really isn't up to much in my opinion). You can do just the one at something like 6pm but that wasn't going to work for us. So we passed, and glad we did on reflection."
This is one place which cannot be missed. Wear winter clothes as the weather is unpredictable. If you plan to take the bus either book in advance or keep some extra time as it can get busy at times. If you can hike up to the glacier for free. Its a wonderful sight . DONT MISS IT
"Drive down into the parking area and take the short but steep hike up and down to the base of the glacier. You cannot walk on the glacier, but you can get a great view and photos. If you want to experiment the glacier, book a walking trip or a buggy ride out! Watch for the markers with dates that show you where the glacier was to where it is now."
This really is a highlight of a Canadian road trip. It's well organised and gives a great insight into the glacier. I would have liked to do a guided tour on the glacier but didn't have time. The guide on the bus Nick was really charismatic and gave some interesting info too. Highly recommend .
"You can take the Glacier adventure to walk safely on the glacier or you can take a short trail to ""almost"" the base of the glacier. Either ways the views are stunning all around and the experience to walk on the glacier even for 20 minutes is quite fun."
"When in the Rockies, this is a must see sight, the view of the glacier is amazing. If you want to walk to the ice field do make sure you have sturdy shoes. The length of time for your visit depends on whether you want to look from a distance or walk. It can be cold and windy. There are facilities nearby for food and drink so a good place to break your journey and enjoy the view."
"On day 15 of our camping trips, when the dog doesn't even perk an ear when you say, ""do you want to go for a walk?"" because you've already hiked over 150km, we usually explore by car. We have driven the 100km from Jasper to the Columbia Ice Field several times in different seasons and they are all worth the trip. This time we decided to stop and have our usual tailgate burger on the edge of the upper parking lot (excellent views of the glacier for free) and then decided to keep on driving towards Saskatchewan Crossing. It was so worth the extra km as there are several waterfalls, lots of photo worthy views into the river valley, and lots of hiking trails yet to be discovered. It was a long way to go for a coffee, but the drive back to Jasper in the setting sun was filled with inspired and lively conversation and took no time at all."
To see the disappearance of a glacier due to global warming is shocking and amazing. Everyone should see this so they can see up close the effects of global warming- no hoax! Go as soon as you can - you never know when it will be gone!
"Gorgeous views. Take lots of pictures. We were in a tour bus that would occasionally stop, so beautiful."
"It's a short hike up the moraine to see the base of the glacier. The park staff does not want you to walk on the glacier - unless you are with a guided ($) group. They are afraid you'll fall into a crevasse. Several people were going up on their own anyway. There are buses ($) that will drive you up, and you can walk the middle section of the glacier. Park Pass required throughout the park."
Fab trip to the Athabasca glacier today. A unique experience in a unique vehicle. The glacier water was so good to drink. Just couldn't believe the odd person wore flip flops!!!
"Driving from jasper to Lake Louise we thought we should stop and take a look at the athabasca glacier. Thought it was over commercialised, extremely crowded and very grey/dirty looking in appearance so didn't feel inspired to take a trip into the glacier or spend too long there or in the centre. Very chilly walk up to the glacier. Only time in our 2 week holiday in the Rockies we needed coats. Interesting to see from the markers where the glacier used to be."
We wanted to tour the Glacier but the place was so busy that if we would have purchased our tickets at 11:30 AM we would have not been scheduled to tour until 3:30 PM ... too long to wait as we had to travel to Jasper for our accommodation.So we parked below the glacier and walked part way up for the view.
"Went for a day trip from jasper to experience the icefields. When we first walked up to the icefields information Center we noticed everybody eating food they brought. I now see why, the food was severely overpriced for the low quality of food. Got our tickets waited in line and then boarded the bus for the 5 minute drive out. Loaded up on the ice crawlers for the drive out. The guide(Tim) was very informative and entertaining. Got off onto the icefield to see this tiny little area roped off and 5 bus loads of people walking around. It's good to see once but I won't return, too much waiting in lines for something that wasn't overly that exciting."
We drive the Parkway both ways. Going north we stopped and did the Glacier Sky walk. Going south we did the glacier hike. Both were great things to do.
"The Columbia Icefields is a must see part of Jasper National Park. The snow coaches are fun, the guides are informative and funny, and overall the experience was good. The Glacier itself is astonishing and the skywalk is....well..... it turns out I don't much care for see through wobbly-in-the-wind things sticking out of mountains but the adrenalin rush was fun. Those things being said, we did have what I consider a disproportionate number of issues, all of which seem to be relatively simple fixes. We were told upon booking that my father would need to present his credit card and possibly ID to receive our tickets. When we arrived the person requested the confirmation email and digital tickets, something hard to provide with no cell service (and as such no data or internet). I ended up going and borrowing the hotel's wifi to get the tickets, got back in line, got to the front after a 20 minute wait just to be told to go back to the back of the line and wait until 10 minutes before our departure time before entering the line again. Signage specifying what time slots are to be entering the line at any given time would be helpful as well as some clarity regarding how to get the tickets as some wires were crossed somewhere there. Boarding and the activities were all excellent. The last problem comes from our shuttle bus ride back to the Icefields Centre from the Skywalk. My parents, daughter, and I were the last people to board the bus and as such had to go all the way to the back. My mother has issues walking and balancing. The bus started moving before any of us were seated, the lurch causing my mother to fall into my daughter and throw her into the seat. My daughter spent the shuttle ride back crying which unfortunately ended the activity on a bit of a bum note. Should anyone affiliated with Brewster end up reading this please stress the importance to your staff of ensuring all people on the bus are seated before moving as a more severe injury could have easily happened or may happen in the future."
Really enjoyed this drive and all the sights along the way. We downloaded the Gypsy Guide and it gave wonderful information about the road and perfect places to pull off and enjoy some hikes. It took us 7 hours to drive from Jasper to Lake Louise. Our favorite stop was at Bow Lake. Gorgeous
"Of course the walk is a little more demanding so I understand not everyone can do it but it is a much better experience and I haven't done, nor would I ever do, the bus. Our guide Phil, through Ice Walks, was fantastic and very knowledgeable. This is what he does. Tours of all kinds (helli skiing, glacier walks) and he is an outdoor adventurist. Best kind of guide. Get this hike in before the glacier is gone! It retreats like 30 feet a year and doesn't really advance anymore (but listen to our governments, global warming is a sham...lol). Very sad to see where it was in 1982, last year and in talking with family where it was (the highway) 50+ years ago."
"We visited the ice field including taking the glacier tour and spending about 45 minutes in the visitor center. The visitor center is fantastic. There is a theater, a wonderful exhibit on the history of Banff/Jasper and several dining areas. There is also a hotel, which, if I were planning this trip again I would have stayed there for a night to break up the drive from Jasper to Banff. The icefield is truly amazing. From the road you can only see where the glaciers end. You need to take a helicopter ride to view the icefield (next time!)."
"Really warm day but still cold when out on the ice. We arrived about noon and there was still carparking spaces available but they filled up quite quickly after that. Had a picnic there - tables provided. Trip was well organised and informative. Plenty of photo opportunities. Trip also included Skywalk, I didnt think it added much to the experience so if you are short on time, leave that bit out"
"If are in the area of Banff, and have a few hours for a drive, you should definitely check out the ice field"
"Unfortunately, the day we visited it was raining, which turned into wet snow and wind on the actual glacier. The tour guides were great. Alec and Super Kyle were the most enjoyable parts of my tour experience. 30 minutes in the wind and rain/snow was more than enough. There was less space than expected to actually explore the glacier. Glad we did it, some important information to be gleaned, but it wasn't exactly life changing either."
Bright knowledgable staff. Excellent experience. Would recommend. We went with a 6yo and 13yo and the both enjoyed the experience.
2 years ago we took the Tour Bus up to the Icefield and felt this time around we would hike up ourselves to see the glaciers. In 2 years they have shrunk a lot...glad we took the tourbus earlier!
Well worth stopping to take this in. Spectacular views and walk. Lovely place to visit . Lovely views on the drive
"Despite the fact that I was outraged by the number of ice explorers (the bus that takes you out there to the glacier) this company takes up there, the guy that drove it made me forget about my outrage, this guy : Mike Field told us great stories and made me laugh a lot, the tour was worth it but if you're planning to go, book the earliest time, after that, at least on August, it's a zoo!, way too many people , more like a Disney experience than a nature loving one unfortunately ... way way too many people here, this place might not last long at this pace"
"Make sure you wear jackets, gloves and scarf. Its very cold even on a sunny day. The water tastes OK if you don't mind the smoky taste from BC fires. Must see and experience if you in the area. We were on the way from Banff to Jasper and spend couple hours on the icefields and skywalk."
The one place it was really cold! To actually walk out onto the glacier was an awesome experience. I highly recommend stopping here and taking the tour bus all the way up.
"Had a great guided tour with a Canada Parks guy - really knowledgable - you get so much more info when a walk is guided. It was freezing cold (stating the obvious) with a biting wind - it all added to the experience of being close to a glacier. It was a free walk, a free movie downstairs, quick coffee from separate stand on the terrace (tip to avoid queues in restaurant)... well worth stopping. We didn't get to walk on the glacier - just up to it. Loads of people booking all sorts of trips / walks / bus trips etc - it was heaving. But we managed to find the quietest places by accident with the movie, display, and then guided walk."
"Great stop en route from Banff to Jasper, you can't miss it. We joined the last tour of the day, which minimised the number of people up on the glacier, and the light was beautiful. Tried to ignore the irony of traversing a rapidly receding glacier in a massive gas guzzling monster truck. The guides skirted round the thorny issue of climate change as skillfully as they maneuvered the truck down the 2nd steepest unpaved road in North America. All that aside, it's a wonderful thing to see, and the lovely people at the centre let us park our RV in their car park for free overnight. Yes, I know, an RV... that glacier doesn't stand a chance..."
"Yes this is commercialised, but well worth visiting, it won't be there for ever. The young guide who drove the huge vehicle was knowledgeable and very personable."
"I have been to the Icefield before when a trip to the glacier was the only thing to do. We wanted to do this again so that my 3 year old grandson could experience it. The changes to the foyer and ticket purchase area are not an improvement!We tried to buy a ticket for the glacier only but this is not an option. So we had to buy an inclusive ticket to include the skywalk, which added $32C to each ticket.Imagine our anger when the bus from the glacier trip did a drop off at the centre before heading to the skywalk. Clearly we could have done just one activity but were forced to pay for 2."
"First of all I will say that we didn't take the tour onto the glacier, so it is not a review of that. It is very busy there, but that was true of all our visits in the area. We didn't get parked in the main park but there seemed to be plenty of other places to park. I wasn't that impressed by the glacier, I thought there were better ones along the Icefield parkway (e.g. Crowfoot). It looked grey and dirty when I was hoping for it to be very white. The area around it was very barren and it was not good walking. After seeing it, we were not tempted to take the tour onto the ice itself."
To us it was busy but apparently usually a lot worse. Go early is my advice. Prepaid doesn't avoid a queue for ticket. Given a guaranteed time to go which was great so no long waits in queues. Four minute bus ride ride up to meet up with the ice explorer with Zak. Zak was a laugh a minute and a great way to start the trip. Next it was Nik who drove us on the ice. Also funny and informative. The glacier is slippery so take care and dress appropriately as it was very cold as well. Reverse to get back but you get taken to sky walk whether you are going on it or not and then get back to centre again.
"This is something you have to experience it once in your lifetime. Standing on the glacier surrounded by other glaciers and icefield is an experience. If possible take the first tour of the day which is at 9am, your tour bus will be the only one on the glacier, later on multiple tour buses are at the glacier so gets crowded. It is really very cold, so make sure to layered up."
"The 8-mile round trip hike to the overlook was well worth every step. The views were spectacular and we were greater by two Big Horn Rams at the summit. It is a moderate hike, but plan extra time to enjoy the vistas along the way."
"This is unbelievable to see. We did the bus tour to the ice fields and drank the ice cold glacier water!
It is very busy so book ahead of time. Be prepared to fight for a parking spot if you go during peak time."
"There are two ways of getting to the Ice Field: You can take a 2 kilometer walk up, or pay a fee to take a ride from the Discovery Center. If you walk up there, you can only get near to the Ice Field, but not touching the ice. The scenic is great either ways. It is sad to witness the Ice Field is getting smaller with the ice melting away slowly."
Our Tauck tour stopped here to let us walk on a glacier. Our tour guide said that the ice field was so large that everyone in North America could stand on it. Not sure how she figured that out. Make sure you take a water bottle or cup up to taste some of the run off water. It's as pure as it can be.
"My rating for this is reflective of Columbia Icefield Parkway rather than the glacier itself which I found quite overcommercialised. The drive is spectacular with so many pull outs to stop to enjoy the scenery. Most people recommend driving in both directions. We didn't, and I don't regret it. We did however make the most of the trails and views and took two days with a stop at Wilcox Creek overnight."
"We had never seen the icefields before, so decided to make the drive from Lake Louise to Jasper primarily to see them. It was pretty shocking to see the markers in the ground that show where the edge of the glacier has been over time, highlighting how it has receded over the last several decades. You can't help but reflect on the impacts of global warming when you see it. However, there are many more beautiful places to see in the Canadian Rockies. We had originally planned on doing the tour that takes you out onto the glacier, but the prices were ridiculously high. And the ""skywalk"" that you see in the pictures isn't actually AT the glacier. Again, there are so many great views and lookout points in the Rockies, I don't think paying to get access to this one represents value for your money. The full tour might make sense if you don't have a car and are getting it as part of a package deal that includes a bus ride from Calgary or some other place. The walking tour with a guide may be a better option too. One final word of caution: the visitors' centre was crazy busy! And the cafeteria was so busy that they had run out of many of the items on their limited menu by 1:30."
Unfortunately this place was closed (7pm) upon arrival with nothing to do and. It a very easy to understand options. A great pit stop and wonderful views nonetheless
"Amazing Glaciers, see them before they are gone. These are easily accesible. The entire drive is beautiful.Get out of the car and take the hikes."
"I sincerely cannot figure out why this attraction gets good reviews. Maybe it's interesting if you don't live in a climate where it snows? Being from Minnesota, it just felt like being outside in January ... a bunch of dirty snow. The area where you're allowed to walk is tiny ... the size of maybe a 50-car parking lot, if that, and it's filled with people. They just drop you off to stand around there for 35 minutes, and there's just not much to do other than grab some water from the stream and take your picture. The only positive thing I can say is they chose a good marketing company because somehow they managed to make this look like the experience of a lifetime in the photos and video. Unfortunately, the experience does not live up to the marketing. The drive up to Jasper from Banff was very scenic, and there are some beautiful lakes to stop at along the way. We stopped at Bow Lake, which was gorgeous."
The tour it's self was absolutely organized and on time! The tour guides were very detailed and informative! The entire experience from and to end was absolutely memorable! The freedom we had to move about on the actual glacier was the best part as we were able to capture priceless pictures of our family with such an incredible and amazing background! The skywalk experience was also quite outstanding and absolutely informative with the self-guided feature! A must see if anyone is visiting that area! Would highly recommend!
"This is worth a visit you cant come all this way and not do this, the transport takes about 20 mins to get to the Glacier but amazing once you get there, coach driver very informative."
"If you have money to spend, book a ticket in advance in July and August take the tour! For budget friendly, stop in and check out the ice centre, but drive to the parking lot at the toe of the glacier and take the small hike to it. There is an uphill part but it's the only one and you can rest on the way. The path takes you to a better viewing area but not to the actual toe. A rope perimeter guides you so if you are adventurist, like ""breaking rules,"" and have lots of common sense, go under it and take the guides path to the toe. There are guided tours to it you can book with provided hiking boots and ice pick attachments, but on the bus tour you walk on the glacier with no special equipment. Cross a wooden plank over a narrow path of rushing water and step foot on the Columbia Glacier. Don't venture far just walk a few feet on and check it out. Ice crevices are narrow but slippery and can go 100's of feet into the ice. You don't want to fall down one as that's where you will stay. The ice field area is colder but even more so on the glacier plus quite windy. On the bus tour, guided tour or on your own, wear pants, a warm coat, take something to cover your ears and bring Kleenex (as your nose will likely run) and water."
"Thoroughly enjoyed this; the guides were informative, the ice explorer was fun to ride and the glacier itself is stunning. It feels ethereal to walk on ice 200m thick - a must see."
"The staff on the coaches were lovely, but I feel it was expensive for 30 minutes on the glacier when you had to stay within a roughly 50m X 50m area. There were many groups on the glacier so it felt crowded. I may be prejudiced as I have visited Iceland's glaciers on a guided tour which was epic, but overall I was disappointed."
"Great fun and felt almost like an alien planet at some points. Bus drivers were humorous and friendly and also knowledgeable about the glacier. However the one downside to this was the cafe. The prices were ridiculously high. One egg sandwich for $10!!! You can get a sandwich in Tesco for a pound. Overall, great experience but bring pack lunch unless you want to remortgage you're house."
"took the ice explorer/Jasper explorer to see the glaciers that are disappearing. Wonderful staff ""superKyle"" was awesome with a great sense of humor and knowledge. They believe the way the snow is melting that the glaciers will disappear in 70 years. Worth the trip to see this natural wonder. The bus driver Mitch was also very informative. Great service, great views."
"We enjoyed our excursion out to the Icefield. Our driver was very informative. This was a unique experience and I would highly recommend going. You will want to get there early. I would recommend booking the 9am tour to the Icefield as this is the first one out. We went on this one and our group were the only people out there. If you book a later tour, there will be multiple tours (buses) out there at the same time. The Icefield will be very congested as it is a relatively small area that is marked off with boundary marks."
"Dress well, the wind here is cold! The hike to get there is quite steep, but my 8 year old and my mom (78) did it not problems. I would recommend paying to go on a tour, don't get close to the ice. Still worth it!"
"Awesome. this place was amazing. Several tours offered. We rode in the snowcat up the Athabasca Glacier. Amazing to see and you only see a small portion of this. Highly recommend you take the time to see this. Again, a favorite of bus tours so get there early."
"Sky walk and ice glacier are the main event here. Tickets are expensive but not worthwhile after you've done both as a package. Sky walk isn't tall enough so you don't feel anything, disappointed. Ice field seems to be A Must but also feeling disappointed. After a long drive to this area, you will feel this place is overhyped. I rather not paying for the activities but just look at the field from the bottom of the mountain. Maybe winter is better?!"
"i did the icefield walk on the glacier and found the hike exhilarating it is a short hike and not very scarry at all, clothing and equipment was provided for safety"
"This was a lovely trip where the guides made it not only informative but entertaining, they were sarcastic but not rude and the young age of the guides made it more accessible for the teenager audience that was present."
To be fair we have done this twice now but not this year and nor will we do it on the way back from Jasper in 2 days.It is good fun and must be done. But go as a couple rather than as part of a tour unless you are not driving around yourselfs.
"If you have not seen a glacier, this is a must see drive. Very crowded. Amusing to see Chinese tourists not heed warnings to stay off glaciers"
"Well managed adventure, suitable for teens through healthy seniors. Was glad we elected to do this and pass up the walk on the glass walkway (another option), since it did not include any glacier and appeared crowded, both days we drove by on the Icefields Parkway."
You are taken to the ice field via a large ice bus. Once there you have about 15-20 minutes to walk around and take pictures in an area that is roped off for safe viewing. It is amazing to see the ice melting before your eyes and see how the glacier has receded over time. Really makes you think about our environment and how it is changing. I would recommend arriving as early as possible as it gets really busy at the waiting area. The waiting area is very large with lots of food choices and a balcony with views of the glacier as well. We were with Caravan Tours and were able to get our group through without any trouble. Once in lifetime experience!!
"Free, park up and walk across to see the glaciers from the path. Snocoach tours are available for a price but as these actually drive on the glaciers we thought them a little damaging and chose not to. Good visitor centre across the main road"
"How many times in life will you have the opportunity to step on a glacier? Just book the tour and do it. We popped into the visitor center at 3:15pm and booked the ultimate package (Skywalk, glacier tour, boat cruise and Banff gondola) We did the Skywalk at 3:45, went back to the visitor center and then hopped onto the bus for the glacier tour at 5:45pm. You take a greyhound style bus up to the glacier and then onto a special bus to transport you onto the glacier. At the glacier, you'll have about 30min to walk/slide around and take photos or get water. It was slippery and cold, dress appropriately Views: even with the haze, the views of the glaciers were incredible Time: lined up at 5:40 and returned back to the centre by 7pm. Our bus took a load of guests to the Skywalk before unloading us back at the visitor centre. Tips: dress warm (it's freezing!) Wear grippy shoes, bring a water bottle to fill up"
"You get taken by coach part way to the ice field then board their custom ice going 6 wheeled coach that can safely negotiate the 32 degree climb. 1 hour on the ice is more than enough to to take in the enormity of the glacier. Drink the melting ice water, its the best and most refreshing water I have ever tasted. The Brewster ice tour is the best way to see the glacier, I saw some people turn off and drive as close as they could to the ice field, from there a wide running stream separated them from the glacier- close but not good enough! Get on the ice safely with the tour bus."
"To get to the glacier, you ride in an Ice Explorer truck which is huge! And you go straight up a huge hill, then you get out to walk on the glacier. When we were there, there was an avalanche which they said never happens. It was incredible."
Luckily we had a fantastic day of weather for this trip. Not long after leaving Lake Louise we saw some bears by the road. Stopped and watched while they ran across a short time later. We purchased GYPSY app for phone and it gives running commentary based on GPS position. Whole trip awesome. Heaps to see. Take all day and do it slowly.
Yes I have read the other reviews about the glacier receding and I know it will happen one day but we have nothing like this in the UK and you realy must do it . Book in advance and get there early as the car park really fills up. We arrived early and had breakfast from the restaurant overlooking the glacier. The tour was very well organised and our guide was very knowledgeable. We also did the sky walk we which all thought was great. Yes everywhere is crowded ( it is August ) so try to book an early tour-it was manic when we left. But this really is a must do.
We arrived a little after 11am and there weren't too many people there. We were able to buy a combo ticket for the Glacier and Skywalk easily. About lunchtime it really started to get busy. The Discovery Centre is really well set out and even offers free wifi. Very well organised and worth doing.
"Unless you are a Mountaineer or plan on becoming one, you are unlikely to have a unique experience like this anywhere else in the world. Although I have spent a fair bit of time on glaciers it was still fun watching the excitement in my kids and family - though I still managed to fall flat on my keister. The big tire bus ride was fun too. The Skywalk felt a little too much like an expensive gimmick. I wish we would have spent that time hiking to the toe of the glacier."
Beautiful glacier that you may not be able to visit in the future as it continues to shrink. Amazingly magnificent.
My wife and I drove out to Columbia Icefields at end of July. We hiked up to see the glacier and decided to try the Ice Explorer. We booked the last tour of day and there was only twelve people on tour. It was spectacular and we are so glad we did it!
We took the bus to the ice field and were able to walk around a safe area. We filled our water bottles for the glacier runoff and it was so fresh. Mike was our tour guide and he was very knowledgeable and friendly. After this tour we were shuttled to the sky walk. It offered stunning views and the glass floor was amazing. I'd say to do the adventure tour which includes the glacier walk and the sky walk. Totally worth it
"I organised this trip online through Brewsters. It was well organised and a great experience. The trip on to the ice fields was informative and spectacular. The guide was knowledgeable and friendly. It was great that the ticket - Glacier Adventure, also included the skywalk. This was also accessed by bus from the ice field centre."
"I highly recommend this place if you're visiting Banff or Jasper. If you're looking for a hiking experience that is inexpensive, this is not the right place for you. However, this is the perfect place for those who want to have the experience of walking on a glacier. It's a once-in-a-lifetime experience. You will save some money (cheaper than if you buy it there) you book online 48 hours in advance (10% discount in addition). Make sure you bring some warm clothes, especially extra socks. It's easy to get wet. It gets a bit chilly, especially with the wind. If you have snowshoes, that would be ideal, as that will help you walk around with slipping like everyone else. Imagine walking on an uneven frozen pond. Bring some empty water bottles to fill up from the glacier stream. Overall, this is an amazing experience."
Was sort of melancholy in that tourism is aiding in the unavoidable loss of this glacier. The area was very interesting to learn about but knowing that the glacier would be gone in about 50 years and that the Tour Company's tour guide did share that the ice field walks were aiding in this eventual event took alot of the excitement away.
How many times does the average person - south of the far north - get to see a huge land-based glacier and even be able to take a bus tour out onto it? Or see a number of hanging glaciers and snow caps? This place is a must see. BUT tours and activities are limited so MAKE SURE you call ahead for reservations.
"Walking on a glacier is a truly once in a lifetime opportunity!We took our two daughters - 12 and 16 on this tour, and we could not believe ourselves, as it exceeded (all) our expectations!Be sure to book ahead, or you may end up missing this memorable experience of driving and walking on a glacier. Our trip started at the Columbia Ice Field Visitor Center, where there's plenty of parking for cars and/or RVs. After admiring the glacier views from afar, we queued up for the tour. At first you board a bus for a short drive to a private (inaccessible) parking lot, where you board a giant 6x6 vehicle/Ice Bus. This truck/bus is an experience in its own, but it is definitely not the highlight of your trip. You will be driving up to a glacier passing through ice, down a 30 degrees descent (a bit scary at first), and then onto a glacier. The bus will offload you, and let you roam free on the ice, where you can take amazing pictures, play with snow balls, or touch the water, which are at almost freezing temperature. We were dressed with fleece jackets, as it was quite chilly on the ice. This is a highly recommended experience for all ages!"
"We stopped to view it and take pictures, as we did over ten years ago when we visited. I did not want to go walk on the ice field or take one of the trips in a truck with oversized tires. It seems obvious that the glacier has melted/receded a lot since we were there years ago. The story of how the glacier was formed millions of years ago is a very interesting one."
"Spent about 30 minutes about the discovery centre today, and it was about 28 minutes too many. This place has become a complete tourist trap and was so busy that you could barely walk through the centre and gift shop without being elbowed by someone. The glacier has dissipated in the 10 years since we last saw it and we decided it wasn't worth the $90 to take a buggy tour to ""walk on"" the glacier. It's so sad to see the effects that we are having on our environment by not taking global warming seriously. Jasper national park has some amazing places, and I encourage you to explore by car, but do not fall victim to the tourist traps. The bathroom had human feeces chunked all over the toilet seat, likely from the common way that some people from other countries squat over a toilet seat instead of using it the way it should be used. I felt so bad for the guys waiting outside to go in and clean the bathroom. The gift shop sold Chapstick for $6, t-shirts for $89 and sweatpants for $60. Needless to say it's a rip off, all for looking at a chunk of dirty snow. There are so many other beautiful places in Canada and I encourage you to visit them. I hope that parks Canada can clean this place up and regulate the amount of visitors per day, to make it an enjoyable experience again."
"With climate change in full force, this ice field will only be around for at most 10 years. Given it feeds about 5 glaciers, those will go soon, as well. Purchase a ticket on line before showing up to get a time you want. Its will take 3-4 hours if you do both the ice field tour and the sky walk."
"We opted to hike to the Toe of the Athabasca and found that to be a great, and less crowded way to experience the glaciers without being on them. Our time was limited and it worked well. Fairly easy hike, be prepared for a cold breeze coming off of the glacier. Great information to read along the way of the hike."
"Last time I felt like how I felt today was stuffed in a tram in Disney World...I've visited the icefield centre 16 years ago. That time you would have maybe 3 ice explorers on the glacier... these days Brewster pack the glacier with 8-10 ice explorers at a time. Good luck racing up the tiny area to get your expensive selfie. The scoop is: it is one of these experiences you should do once in your life, so plan ahead. DO NOT come here on a nice weekend this summer. It is insane. Plan ahead and book your tickets online around 48 hrs in advance. You would get 10% discount (wow). Plan to arrive 45 min before your departure, this will give you time to line up to the washroom ( no soap?), line up to the gift shop , then you can line up to your designated 'adventure'. We did not do the skywalk, it looks pretty dumb. It is a cantilevered semi circled bridge they built above the canyon ( no relation to the glacier or Columbia icefield), 8 minutes drive from the centre. There is a bus ride from the centre to the ice explorer loading zone. The ice explorer takes you up to the glacier (Athabasca glacier, part of Columbia Icefield). You get 20 minutes on the ice, then loaded back to the ice explorer, back to a bus , then priority is given to the ones who wasted more money and the bus then first drive to the skywalk, drop off and then back to the centre...Does it worth $270 for a family of four? No. The icefield area is gorgeous, and has nothing to do with Brewster. They have over-commercialized this place, squeezed every possible profit imaginable. Unfortunately, there is no other safe way to get to the glacier. I am not sure how a private company is allowed to own a piece of nature, in the middle of a NATIONAL park."
"Global warming is definitely not a hoax. Our glaciers are receding significantly. So, better now than later. They are not magnificent any more because they are melting away. The walkable area is limited. It is understandable for the sake of preserving the glaciers and our safety. The icefield centre did not manage the buses properly. The 9:30AM bus was behind the schedule pushing our 10AM bus to later time. There was no announcement whatsoever. They just left people waiting in the line for a long time assuming everybody has no other schedules. It is not professional. After visiting the glaciers, everybody was sent to the bus station to wait for the transfer to the Skywalk. Same thing, waiting for a long time without explanation. People asked the coordinator. The answer was the bus was broken and they had to pull in another one. Strangely, 15 mins later, we were asked to get on that broken bus which was right in front of us for over half an hour. broken or not broken??"
"You have to go here! There is something wrong with you if you don't stop and at least look! We didn't have time for the proper bus ride up to the main part of the glacier, but we did park and walk up to the toe. OMG Mother Nature rocks!"
Our snow mobile driver is LUKAS. He is awesome !! Love his sense of humour and his enthusiasm for the job !! Hire more people like him !!! Great experience!
A great side trip. Very friendly and entertaining driver of the Ice vehicle we went to the Ice in. Exciting ride and informative narrative. Worthwhile.
Really amazing. Got a bottle of glacier water. The ride on the snow explorer was amazing. Lucas our driver was awesome and funny making jokes the whole way. He was super friendly. 6/5 stars.
The drive long the ice field highway is simply beautiful - the nicest drive we've ever taken. The glaciers themselves are awesome. Very rare to see three right next to each other and so close to the road. This is a must see! A tip...if you're visiting this region bring your high end camera.
There is not much left of the ice fields. The center tries to do its best to make it interesting but the glaciers have receded so much that there isn't much there. You can still do the walk on the glacier but it doesn't feel like much compared to the ones in Alaska. Make this a quick stop and then move on.
"My group of 7 people had a great time on the glacier. After getting on the initial bus, we were then taken to a huge bus that could go on the ice. To get to the glacier, you go down a hill with a 32 degree grade. I can't say I was scared, but I think I did hold my breath while we were on it. Our driver/guide Zach was great - he had great knowledge about the glacier and was very reassuring as we did that hill. The scenery is gorgeous. You don't realize how big it is until you're on it and look back at the parking lot and see how tiny the cars are. Bring a jacket as it's cool on the glacier and wear solid footwear as the ice is uneven."
"The glacier tour doesn't give you too much time to take in everything (I could spend an hour), but it is well worth it."
We travelled the area as part of Rocky Mountaineer trip and although it was freezing cold when we visited in May we would highly recommend. Nature at its finest.
We drove here as we read it wasn't worth paying for a tour. We were right to do so. Seriously some companies are charging $150 or more to come here. You will be annoyed if you pay when you can drive there for free and take in the stunning views along the way
"Absolutely amazing tour and sights! We walked on an actual glacier and drank from it! Staff was very well educated and trained and knowledgable and guided us and offered lots of info on the sights and area. It was very very touristy and crowded, however that is sort of expected I suppose. Overall this was the highlight of our trip and worth the crowds to say we experienced a live glacier! The sky walk wasn't much in my opinion, especially if you are not a fan of heights or crowds."
"OK, you don't really get to see the Columbia Icefield.That's a cluster of glaciers flowing from a high point over the top of the skyscraping mountains. What you get is a view of some of those glaciers as they pour slowly over the rim of the mountains. And a beautiful trip along the Icefields Parkway, one of the most beautiful drives in the world. You also get an entertaining ride on a six-wheel drive all-terrain bus, unique to this place, that takes you out onto the lower part of the glacier where you can walk around and drink the glacier meltwater if you like. Highly recommended."
"Brewster has the Ice Field tours sewn up, which, when you hear the drivers' spiel, is understandable once you've learned that the vehicles cost 1.3 million dollars, and the 6 tires cost $4K/each and only last 2 or 3 seasons. But the drivers' patter also goes toward geological explanation of what is being seen, a sense of history (in 1843 the Glacier filled the whole valley, and will disappear in 150 years) as well as a lot of jokes to spackle the parts together. Once we reached the glacier, we were given about 20 minutes to walk on a relatively small, restricted area, although that seemed long enough for most of the busload. The cost is high, and it would probably be sounder ecologically to walk up on foot, but it looks as if Brewster's 22 buses will continue to shuffle back and forth for a long time to come."
We were on a bus tour and one of the stops was to drive onto the glacier in a special buggy. The temperatures are 10 degrees colder than on the roadside and do take warm clothes. There is a special group you can book to hike over the glacier with a guide and this would be worth doing.The glacier is melting and is regressing at several meters each year and the surface is cut into by channels of melt water. The edge of the glacier where melting has been fastest is surrounded by gravel and moraine and provides an excellent example of the typical glacial landscape.
"We decided to tour the ice fields as a family since they our boys are off to school in opposite directions. We are all happy we chose to do this. Well worth the drive from Calgary. I really enjoyed all the informative and polite staff members. It's great to see such good service. We arrived early but the sites kept us inthralled. Loved the ride onto glacier and getting to spend our time playing on the glacier. Perfect amount of time any more and you would be cold. Remember your jacket and slip on some long pants and a jacket even in summer. Very cool to see the new lake below the glacier as they have signs showing where glacier reached in recent history . We all learned a lot of info on glacier history and the effect of the glaciers movement. The children on our tour bus loved the glacier, feeling the cold water, raising a flag, taking photos, looking at climbing gear or checking out the huge Brewster ice explorers."
I have no idea how you can rate this low this was an incredible experience. Yes it's busy and the center is crazy but once on the glacier it is awesome. Drinking cold glacier water was awesome and the drives to the glacier on the huge snow catch was cool and informative. I thought it took thousand if years for the glacier to lake its journey turns out just a couple hundred.
"We took a large ice vehicle to the glaciers & then we walked on them. The view was so beautiful, a great place to take breath taking photos. A nice tour, thanks to Jordan who made it extra special. A memorable day for Tauck Bridges guests on August 9, 2017.Thx Theresa David John, New York"
"At least for those like me that had never been on a glacier, it is really amazing, since embarking on one of those Icefield Explorer giant buses. Money well spent!"
"Jasper National Park, in my view one of the wonders of the world, suffers from an excess of tourists for the facilities available. Not many attempts seem to have been made over the years to improve and increase capacity. To be fair, that has happened at the Icefield Centre, but it is again often swamped by sheer numbers keen to see the rapidly diminishing glaciers opposite. It's not really to be recommended, unless perhaps you've never seen a glacier."
"If you've never been on a glacier, then by all means do this. However, it is very commercialized and has heavy traffic. I guess it has to be that way to handle the crods but there was quite a wait and fairly long rides to get out on the glacier for a 10-15 minute photo session amidst several hundred other people."
"We parked near the toe of the glacier and walked along the trail to see it. It's sad to see all the people being bussed up to walk on the glacier, surely this cannot help with environmental impact we are having on it?? Weather was not great on the day we were there, but still worth a look."
Then take the Brewsters couch tour to the Ice Fields. Comfortable couches with a knowledge driver of the area travelled through. Enough stops to stretch one's legs and grab some photo opportunities along the way. Free hot lunch provided at the Ice Fields but one must eat in a hurry. Easy access with a short wait time to go onto the Icefield. A pleasant day spend without the hassle of driving.
"We arrived at the Columbia Icefields on day 8 of our Tauck Tour from Jasper National Park to Banff Springs Hotel. We arrived at the Icefields and boarded the Ice Explorer to the Athabasca Glacier IceFields! The Icefield is the last remnant of an ice sheet miles deep that once covered most of Western Canada and carved many of it's rugged Mountain peaks. The Ice Explorer takes you to the top of the where you can walk into the Glacier's ice sheets. An exceptional Experience, one not to be missed!"
This was the best activity we did while in Banff National Park! Go during one of the first tours of the day because it gets crowded during mid day. The ride on the Ice Explorer was fantastic and be sure to bring a bottle to fill with glacier water!
"First, I recommend booking this online ahead of time. The Discovery Center where all tours depart from is very crowded and overall not well organized. We had pre-purchased tickets, but we were taking a chance on the weather since tickets are not refundable. If you do purchase ahead of time be sure to print out both the tickets and the boarding pass - this isn't clear and it was just lucky I had both.The overall tour takes about 3 hours, and everything is very punctual. This tour includes both a ride to the glacier and the skywalk. You board one of the ""Ice Explorer"" buses to ride out to the glacier itself. You then have about 20 minutes to walk around on the ice. It's brief, but the area that you are walk on is very small. It is a glacier, so it will be cold, so be prepared, even in on a warmer day. After the glacier visit, you ride the Ice Explorer back and then board another bus which takes you to the Skywalk - a short drive down the road. You drive past the Skywalk on the Icefields Parkway, but cannot stop there yourself, you must purchase tickets and take the bus. I'm not sure exactly why it's called a Glacier Skywalk - it is not over a glacier, but over a valley. You walk a short distance down a path along the road to the skywalk and then walk out on the glass walkway. You the board the bus back to the Discovery Center to end the tour. You spend much of the time riding to and from and the young staff members make an effort to be informative, fun, and entertaining."
"We took the icefield skywalk package and was in complete awe of how efficient it was run.we started our day early from Banff ended up getting there early so we had time for breakfast in the lodge where you depart from we were pleasantly surprised at how yummy everything was and not to over priced. The bused to the icefield to hop on a jumbo icefield bus which took us on an informative and exciting trip onto the icefield. Then it was fantastic being on the icefield drinking the glacier water and taking in this wonderful piece of nature, we actually saw a piece break off and the noise was so loud - so exciting. A must see in ones lifetime! Sky walk is a genius engineering feat, very cool and informative we loved every minute of this tour."
We enjoyed these huge buses. Their tires more than 6 feet tall. and buses go right on the glacier and give you 1/2 hour to enjoy the surroundings. My husband enjoyed the Skywalk. For me it is rip off. Brewster combined the attractions to make more money.
"We did the columbia Ice field tour and it was great. The ice trams they use on the glacier itself are amazing. I would recommend that you bring a water bottle to fill up with the freshest, coldest water on earth right from the glacier itself. You should also dress warm as you are literally standing on ice and it is a higher elevation so it is cool up there. Great tour, cool experience."
"We took the glacier explorer and Skywalk option, prebooked online before we set off on our holiday. The drive to the glacier was so much fun and our driver was informative and humorous. The glacier was as cold as I was expecting, but not quite as slippery. I would not recommend going in anything other than sensible shoes. Being able to fill a bottle with glacier water to take away was a nice touch. The Skywalk gave amazing views and we saw a mountain goat just above it. When we got back to the base centre, it was early afternoon and so busy we were glad we went for an earlier slot. We are in the cafe upstairs. The burgers were nice and the portions of chips and sides were HUGE (and I have quite a big appetite). Ample parking, but remember where you left your car!!!"
"The Athabasca Glacier is the center-piece of the Columbia Ice Fields. Its and amazing sight but, sadly, nothing like it was when we lasted visited in 2003. In 14 years the ice has noticeably receded. It excited me to see it again but it also wanted to make me cry. Don't miss the chance to see the Athabasca Glacier."
"We never do these organized tour type things, but it just sounded fun so we did, and we were glad we did. The vehicles are huge and that was fun, too. The skywalk was a bit of let down, but OK."
Unlucky enough to strike short blizzard like conditions at the moment we arrived on the glacier 7degrees at the lodge -7 during the blow but all in the experience[i think]
"Caution: strenuous but short hike to get there.I have walked on and visited glaciers around the world, and this is very worthy. Just looked at this one and didn't do a tour. You cannot see the vastness from the ground, but you can feel it in your bones."
"The ice fields are really cool and getting to walk on a glacier is a once in a lifetime experience. I really did not understand before going how glaciers form and what ""makes"" a glacier. Seeing in person the melting of this glacier and how much has melted in recent history is eye opening. Beautiful place to take photos and learn about glaciers."
Brilliant day out for all the family. Booked our tour through Brewster's and Jak our 19 year old guide and driver of the amazing all terrain ice explorer was friendly and informative. He was in charge of a 1.45m CAD vehicle with 60 passengers and still found time to be witty and dry. This made the trip even more entertaining. By the way you do actually get out onto a real glacier so wear non slip shoes!. Amazing adventure l will never forget. Truly magical.
"Would really have enjoyed trip if it were not for the waiting around both to board our Ice Explorer and also return to the coach. Whilst we were left waiting in the cold wind, other groups did not suffer same fate and simply switched between coach and ice explorer without issue. I am not sure how ice explorers and coaches are allocated but the system failed for us.The skywalk is not over the glacier but is a five minute coach ride away, and overlooks a river valley.The total of 2.5 hours activity for 20 minutes on the glacier was disappointing"
"Me and my girlfriend enjoyed a lot this tour on the glacier.Our guide, Super Kyle (he was really super), was fun and teached us a lot of thing about the Athabasca glacier. The view from there is superb and the skywalk was awesome.What a tour. It's mandatory if you're in the neighborhood !"
Spectacular views all along the ice fields parkway from Banff to Jasper but this one spot has to be the best of the best. The pkwy itself is about 140 miles long with only one place in its entire rte to buy gas (Saskatchewan crossing). So be aware of this especially for motorcycle riders such as myself. You do not want to enter this pkwy on 3/8 tank of gas. Wonderful scenic touring road but about 1/3 of the road is a bit bumpy. Nothing real bad but in comparison to most Canadian toads this 1/3 section is not up too par
"The guide, Cazza, was great!! Even got us a bottle of water to drink..........I took off at least 4 years after taking some sips. We had beautiful warm weather while there."
Having never experienced glaciers and icefields we were stunned by the sheer awesome beauty and majesty of the Columbia Ice Field and Athabasca Glacier
Visited the Columbia Ice field while on tour with Gate 1 Travel. We had a allocated time but due to heavy rain earlier in the morning we were put back a few hours in time so we headed to the Visitors center to fill in some time I highly recommend the short movie they offer on the lower floor and they also have some great photos from the earlier days. Short Shuttle to the main transportation the huge bus which takes you to the Glacier. I found this the best part of the trip unbelievable how steep the gradient is to get there. Very slippery once you get to the Glacier so good footwear is a absolute must.
"Really enjoyed this excursion, we arrived at the depot and waited for our 'snocoach', what amazing machines they are, then our driver Super Kyle took us out onto the Glacier and that was a great experience to be standing and a chunk of ice so big!"
"I visited the Columbia Ice field as a child. And will never forget the experience of riding on a vehicle that had tracks (like a tank) that crawled over the glacier. Was really looking forward to repeating that experience however once we got there, and into the Discovery Centre it became obvious that we would be disappointed.... While standing in line to buy tickets we saw a promo video which showed the buses are now just driving on an ice road up to the Glacier. We could see as many as 8 'buses' on the glacier at once. Any sense of wonder or awe would be completely ruined by sharing it with over 100 other people at the same time. We decided not to bother with the trip - very expensive for what you get. Just a big cash grab.... wait in line to buy a ticket. Then wait in line to get a time to depart. Then wait in line to get on the bus that will take you to the vehicle (just a bus with snow tires really) onto the Glacier. We were able instead to just drive right down to the bottom of the Glacier. And then take a 15-20 minute walk up to the beginning and take pictures there that are not really any different that what we would have gotten on the $100 tour. Don't waste your money. Be in awe of the natural wonder - not a sucker for greedy tour operators."
This is must stop when travelling along the ice fields highway. Hiking to the base of the glacier is a must. If you want to touch or walk on the ice you have to pay for the tours.
"Unusual topography for 4 1/2 hour drive between Banff and Jasper with many photo/ops, significantly enhanced our understanding of the geology, history and wildlife of area by playing our downloaded narration from GypsyGuides. Take a car charger and enjoy every minute.Warning - only one place to refuel about midpoint, watch out for the $16 hot dogs!"
this is a very well coordinated tour of the ice fields. The company takes you by bus to the launching location where you get on these very large buses to traverse the trip to the ice fields. Some tourists just have to get in the way of others' opportunities to take photos. Staging seems to be a sad but true cultural experience for many tourists!
Impressive to go on a gletcher but the waiting times are extremely long and it is all very touristic. The highway itself is amazing
Never been to a glacier and i found it really neat. Its s bit of a hike but worthwhile. The air blowing off it is really biting cold. You can get a guide to take you out on it. But that didnt seem neccessary. Also have buses set up to take you out on it. A bit pricey though. Ive been bagging on the sights since i got here but this was worthwhile.
"The icefield tour was great and if you do not have a car it's a great way to see the icefield parkway, which should not be missed! If you do have a car you can drive the icefield parkway on your own pace , and get one of the apps that offers a guided tour of the parkway and do a Athabaskan glacier trip by itself instead of doing it as part of a bus tour ."
"It is interesting to see where the glacier was in the past compared to today. The line up for the bus tour was incredibly long, so book in advance if you want to do that."
"Highly recommended this experience, you get to actually walk on to a glacier, it's amazing. We visited in mid-late July, but there is still snow on the glacier so it sounds obvious but take warm clothing and sensible shoes. The specially designed snow coaches that take you on to the glacier are awesome and the guides are really friendly and give amusing commentary. A must if you are in the area -enjoy!"
"The Glacier Tour was fun! The size of the glacier is amazing, even knowing that it has receded so much. The bus and Ice Explorer drivers were great - they were entertaining, yet still gave interesting information about the glacier and its surroundings. Be aware, though - do not wear flip flops, sandals, or smooth-bottomed shoes on the glacier. It is the equivalent of walking on slightly slushy snow, so be prepared! (I wore my snow boots.) I could have done without the Skywalk, although it was included in the tour package. There were too many people pushing and shoving to get onto the clear-floored walkway, and a family was forcing their terrified child onto it while I was there. Not for those afraid of heights! The visitors' center gets EXTREMELY busy during the day, so plan accordingly - the line at the restaurant was really long, and the food wasn't really worth the wait."
"The ice fields are absolutely amazing. Park at the foot and walk on up. It's not recommended to walk on the glaciers themselves, due to the crevasses that change daily, particularly in summer. But a super easy walk up an incline (which means down hill on the way back ). This is a stunning and easily accessible glacier, right on the Icefields Parkway. FYI: Technically, this glacier isn't actually the ice field, that is hidden behind the mountains behind the glacier. But this seems to have been colloquially termed the ice fields... So I'll roll with it."
Impressed by the sheer size and beauty of this field which dominates the landscape as you drive through via the Icefield Parkway and / or take the Athabasca Glacier tour.
We just visited the glacier and did not go for the sky walk. The visit to the glacier is extraordinary and a must do before the glacier is gone in the next decades. Our driver of the big machine was great. He was very knowledgeable and shared good information. Well done Bruce!Bring an empty bottle such that you can drink the water from the glacier!Staff and the whole organisation around the visit is professional.
"Spectacular sight, even though nasty weather and dark skies obscured some of this natural majesty. One of the reasons for coming to this part of the world was for elemental experiences such as this. A lot of other folk from all round the world clearly feel the same."
"Great view of the ice fields and the drivers we had for this and the glacier skywalk were hilarious also, very down to earth and obviously enjoy their jobs. We went with brewster, and got a package deal which saved us money aswell."
This has got to be one of the best ways for the 'ordinary' person to get near or onto an ice field. It is a very busy spot but a must stop destination.
"The sheer enormity of this dwindling glacier is surely a site and must see. Many recommend taking a tour to the glacier if you have the opportunity. On a warmer day, this is also an attraction that can cool you off with the cool blowing wind closer to the top. It will be about a 15-25 minute hike from the base to the glacier. There is a bit of a climb, meaning it’s tougher to walk up, but much easier going down. Keep in mind that this glacier is melting because of the ebbs and flows of nature; other glaciers in the area are actually building up and getting larger over time. Please also be mindful not to go outside the roped areas for safety reasons. A nice wide camera lens will help save the memory of how truly immense this spectacle is.Please kindly indicate if you found this review to be helpful as it will allow me to better focus my future efforts! Much appreciated - hope you have a great time and safe travels!"
"Do not book with viator. You will not have a reservation. They are a third party vendor and have no idea what is really available. Book only with local operator, especially in Banff."
"This was a pretty cool stop. We took the Ice explorer out onto the Icefields. We had Patrick as our guide - funny and informative. You are given about twenty minutes to get out on the ice, take photos, fill your water bottles and get back on the bus. Part of the tour was to go from here to the glass overhanging walkway down the road. I'm assuming they have decided to include it with the first tour as it was really not something that anyone in my group would have paid to do separately. The kids enjoyed going out on the ice. Once you have done it once - I think you are good."
"Once in a lifetime sight. We could park our car, get out and walk quite a hike to touch the glacier OR you can take one of the tours. We decided to do our own thing. Very interesting information on the viewing boards as you walk the trail. Give it a try."
"Great place to visit. Get to walk on the glacier and fill your water bottle up from the various springs within the glacier. Good for kids, but not great if you are unsteady on your feet. Good shoes and jumper recommended. Special thanks to all the your staff which make this a brilliant attraction. Thanks to Ryan who was one of the many coach drivers who found my mobile and made a special effort to get it back to me."
"Had a wonderful tour on the athabasca glacier and Skywalk. Thanks to our great guide Paige, she made our trip so enjoyable. The dude that got us to the Skywalk with the lime green tie (Alec,) who said we were going to plummet to our imminent death on a structure that can hold 3 747s was very educated and very entertaining. On our drive back to the center our drivers name was Mitch. He took us back safely and gave us a history lesson on the original highway. Hey mitch good luck with your time machine and your weekly bingo games."
We didn't do the Ice Field tour only the glass walkway. This is definitely something that should be done the views were amazing and the kids loved it
"Our bus driver Alex was great and entertaining.
The snowcoach driver Nick was super knowledgeable, entertaining and friendly. He made the trip even more fantastic.
Well worth the drive to go see some of the most beautiful sights in Canada."
"If you don't mind a tourist attraction, this is a an easy way to get up close to a glacier. This company is a well oiled machine. They have quite the system. You can purchase a combination ticket to go out on a sky walk, boat ride, and the Banff Gondola. During peak season, this is extremely busy, but well organized. On the glacier, you will only be able to walk in a very small area. There are a lot of people. You have about 20 to 25 minutes on the glacier. This is a great photo opportunity. We waited about 15 minutes on the glacier to take our family photos because of the crowds. We brought an empty water bottle and filled it with glacier water. This adventure is very touristy so beware of that. If you are sensitive to the environment and receding glaciers, you may want to skip this. If you believe in man made global warming, driving huge buses and thousands of people onto a glacier should make you upset."
"We stopped here on tour and got to walk on the ice after a ride in the special busses to reach the glacier,the driver gave good information and facts a very good visit."
We stopped at the Columbia Ice Field. We took the Ice Explorer onto the glacier. We had about a half of hour to walk around the glaciier. Unfortunately the glacier is dirty around the site where so many people tramp around. Still it was a fun experience and you got a good view of the extentant of the glacier. We also went out to the skywalk. The views were amazing. It was a strange feeling having only a glass floor between you and the canyon.
"We visited the toe of the glacier. Parking was crowded, but lots of people coming and going, so getting a stall was relatively easy if you were patient. The walk to the toe is uphill and with the higher elevation, it can take a toll. You used to be able to walk out onto the glacier, but they have it roped off now. There are markers along the way to show where the glacier used to be. We did not do the bus tour and skywalk as they are seriously overpriced. Downside - not much for facilities there...2 outhouse toilets and 2 picnic tables inside a roofed area. Brewsters wants you to go up to the main building to eat and put money in their pockets."
"This enormous ice field is the source of several glaciers, the most well-known and accessible of which is Athabasca glacier.It is an awe-inspiring sight, nature at its best. Fine examples of glaciated landforms and glacier characteristics abound. We had a guide who pointed out interesting features and provided background information. This made our visit all the more interesting. One could just as well go without a guide and still appreciate this natural wonder."
"We had a prebooked ticket but no booked time. When we got there, earliest possible tour was 2 hours away, so had to while away time in Restuarant. Still, amazing trip to glacier and the sky walkway, it is a great unique experience."
Stopped for a view on the glacier before it dissapears in 100 years time! Quite cool up there even in the sun so make sure you have a warm jacket as we did. Special thanks to Joanne at ticket desk for helping us out. Great lady!
"Must see, take your cameras. This recedes every year. Only takes a few minutes to appreciate the beauty around you."
Well worth a stop. We walked up to the glacier which only took 10 mins from the car park. The melt water is flooding off it which makes you wonder how long it will take before it disappears.
Wow .... what a wonderful experience good value ......night trip to glacier Entree on the glacier and buffet at the hotel it was good value not to crowded at that time ...Bruce ....the driver / guide went the extra mile explaining everything thank you
A must do experience if you are passing but make sure you book on line before you visit. I don't think you were able to walk on the glacier unless you took the tour which was well worth it.
We drove up on the Ice Fields Parkway from Lake Louise. The trip took longer than expected because of all the turn outs on the highway offering the spectacular views of the mountains and lakes. We had no idea what to expect when we arrived at the visitors center. Beautiful glaciers and mountains. We did not take any of the tours or the sky bridge. We were happy with the eye candy we saw from the visitors center.
"not to be missed! the views are out of this world and the pics we got, while beautiful just don't do it justice."
This was highlight of touring trip of Canada. Punctual pick up in Jasper with the charming Tim and Chris. We were treated like royalty. No waiting in queues for us and even got our own ice explorer vehicle. Plenty of wildlife spotted between the various breathtaking stops. I would recommend a trip to Canada just for this tour.
A wonderful experience riding in a monster truck up onto the ice field. Be careful when you get out its very slippery. Take an empty water bottle to collect glacier water.
"Stopped ' road a big truck out on glacer oh well I am very familar with Ice and snow if you are not go it is different guide gave a nice talk you can get out and walk on ice carefull it is slick have fun ,nice musem short movie see it"
"Really wonderful. We stopped at the visitor center, which offers a spectacular view of the mountains and has two good restaurant options. Although we did not take one of the tours, it was still worth stopping there, as we walked up the mountain to a point very close to the glacier."
"What if I told you that, for just a relatively small price increase over the price of a regular tour, you could cut down crowds by 96%, eat high-end hors d'oeuvres on the glacier, and have a fairly good buffet dinner -- ALL INCLUDED in the price?You'd tell me I'm crazy, right?Well, if you want to experience the Columbia Icefield glacier in a high-end environment, free of crowds and hassle, for a great price, read on...Like many of you, the thought of riding a unique vehicle up to the glacier, and then walking on it (and drinking pure water from it) sounded appealing.Like many of you, the thought of waiting on long lines, crowding into a bus, and standing shoulder-to-shoulder with 400 people on the glacier was NOT appealing.I almost skipped this ""adventure"", until I read a review of a very NEW product offered by the same company (Brewster) from the same location.At 5:30pm and 6:30pm every night, they run an ""Evening on the Ice"" program. It typically has only about 16-20 people total (our group had 16). Compare this to 400-500 people on the glacier at once in the normal tours, this is already a MASSIVE improvement.While on the glacier, each person gets some tasty hors d'oeuvres, packaged in metal boxes. After about 30 minutes on the glacier, they bring you back to the lodge, where you have a private buffet dinner, which is pretty good as far as buffets go.The entire experience is high-end and personal. The guides even come have dinner with everyone, and walk around asking if anyone has further questions.All of the guides, including driver Bruce, were very knowledgeable, friendly, and accessible.This experience sounds like it would cost at least 5-10 times more than the regular tour. After all, they're sending up 96% FEWER people to the glacier, and also serving you both appetizers and dinner (neither of which are given at the regular tour). Instead, the price points are VERY CLOSE -- only about $25 more per person!Can you believe it? You get SO MUCH MORE by paying only a little more.The regular Columbia Icefield tour seems like a crowded cattle herding, while Evening on the Ice is how you'd picture the rich people doing it -- except you don't have to be rich to afford it!I suggest doing this soon, because I am assuming they will either end this or massively raise the price after 2017. This just started in mid-June, 2017, and is ""experimental"" right now.I promise you will not be sorry if you do this.A few tips:- Go at 6:30. Will still be plenty light enough, but I think the 5:30 tour still ran into some of the ""end of day"" regular glacier tours (not sure, but that's what it looked like). At our 6:30 tour, we were the only ones up there. It was so nice and peaceful!- WEAR WARM CLOTHES. It is about 38 degrees up there with a cold wind blowing up the ice. It will feel like 15-20 degrees. Do not be deceived by the warm temperatures at the lodge.- Bring an empty bottle (any empty bottle) to collect glacier water. It is clean, drinkable, and tastes GREAT.- This tour is right in between Jasper and Banff, so it's close to nothing. Make sure to plan your day well, and time it properly so you don't miss it!- Buy your tickets in advance -- preferably at least a month.- Evening on the Ice does NOT include the SkyWalk, but honestly, you're not missing much, and can also do it separately if you really feel like you want to do it.While this was an excellent experience overall, if I can offer the company a few tips for improvement (they read this), it would involve the buffet. The buffet, while good overall, is a bit disorganized and seemingly makes some rookie mistakes. They ran out of plates fairly often, the chicken was constantly running out and being replaced a few at a time, and the prime rib both ran out and was immediately cold when replaced. This needs a few tweaks to operate a bit better, but you're on the right track. Overall, Evening on the Ice is a great product!"
"You can ride a bus onto the glacier, or you can walk up to the base for free! It is a little bit of an up hill hike, but well worth the effort."
Take your time and take a walk to see way up to the big glaciers.At the rate the world is warming due to over-population these glaciers willnot be here in 50 years.. So better get while the getting is good.Too many people on Earth now. Globe is warming up and changing natural features. We could be doomed.
"This was an interesting experience. The glacier was OK. We drove to a marked off area were there were many other people. There was more than one bus there. Apparently drinking the water there is good, but you could get sick from it so I'd advise against doing it. The ice was very bright and clean even with hundreds of tourists stepping on itOverall the experience was fun and the guides were friendly and humorous. 8/10Pros:- Good guides-Beautiful glacierCons:- Expensive- Destroying the environment"
"It was crystal clear out the day we visited, so we didn't take the tour out to the actual icefield - you can see it from the tourist center, which is nice in and of itself. But we DID visit the (new-ish) sky bridge. WOW!! What a fantastic experience! I think we got a little lucky b/c it was a beautiful day, and apparently that doesn't happen all that much. But even if it had been hazy or cloudy...the experience is breathtaking. I'm not particularly afraid of heights, but I had to stay close to the rail as I walked around the part with the glass floor. I am so glad we didn't skip this - it was a highlight of our trip."
We were part of a tour and went on the ice field with a guide called Pat [the Hoff] he was very informative and had a good sense of humour he certainly knew his job really enjoyable experience.
"This was booked as part of our Rocky Mountaineer experience so everything was organised well. We even had a female driver, Emma, who was informative and great fun. It is an incredible experience walking on the glacier and you do have to have suitable footwear on. This is something that should not be missed. It was also great fun travelling in the ice explorer vehicles."
Absolutely bewitching beauty. Just a marvel at this natural wonder. Knowing this glacier has been in existence for so long what a wonder to see and experience.
"Visiting here is a two-edged sword. It's beautiful and easily accessible, but at the same time the more human contact the worse it is on ice. Do no harm - look, and leave it the same when you leave."
The Columbia Ice Field is down as one of the highlights of the national park. Our opinion was that it was like visiting a quarry in a Thunderbirds vehicle. It was manically busy and you basically sit in an all-terrain vehicle for a long period and then spend a few minutes on the ice field in a very small area. The skywalk is slightly more dramatic but bear in mind there are no washroom facilities at either so it is a long time to cross your legs!
The Columbia Icefields are spectacular. Mighty glaciers effectively on the road side. The Information Cente is on the left if going from Jasper to Banff. You can purchase tickets to go on a tour of the Glacier. It is commercial and if you have never seen a Glacier well worth it. Further down the road however is the Parker Ridge Trail. It is a mderate to difficult hike with many switchbacks. The end however is worth it as you overlook a magnificent Glacier and view.
"OMG this place is breath taking
You'll need wasn't clothes sunglasses and grippy shoes - sheet ice but such fun and awesome scenery"
It's definitely a tourist conveyer bely but it is well worth it. You travel by regular bus and then an ice bus to get to the glacier. Be sure to do it within the next few years as the glacier is receding and won't be here in another 10 or so years.
Great views and great gift shop.Sitting on the deck with public telescopes and an inspiring view we enjoyed soup and sandwiches from the cafeteria. Indoors is packed elbow to elbow with bus travelers lining up snow bus tours to the glacier or an additional bus to the glass floor overhang just downriver.
"We stopped here while driving from Jasper to Banff. The visitor Centre offers food options and it was the most chaotic, disorganized and horrible pit stop of our trip. It is a cafeteria style setting, and there was no food ready when there were 50 people waiting for food. We got bison burgers as they were the only thing that was ready and it tasted like sawdust on a rock hard bun. The patty was the size of a slider on a huge bun. Dry as a fart! I wished we kept driving after the glacier (which was amazing by the way) and waited to eat for another few kilometers at the next stop. I am so glad I paid $17 for the saw dust burger. My suggestion is to see the glacier then get on the road, there is another (better) restaurant a few more kilometers down the road."
"This was an amazing trip. A little step at first, but once on the ice the walk was amazing. The wind was welcome as a means of cooling off."
This is a dying glacier. I saw it summer. It has receded at least 100metres over the last 25 years. Take a light windbreaker in summer because the winds make it chilly.
Second visit to the ice fields in 10 years. It's sad to see the decline of the glacier since the early 1900's. We walked up to the top viewpoint and it was a beautiful brisk day but not cold. This is one of the most interesting sights to see while in Jasper. Worth the short walk.
"Truly a unique experience to actually drive out onto a glacier and walk on top of it as it moves, ever so slowly, underneath you."
"Breath-taking views in every direction. The trip out onto the glacier in the giant ""ice buggies"" very cool experience. The Glacier Skywalk is feat of engineering in itself and offers an exhilarating view of the Sunwapta canyon 900 feet below. If you're really feeling brave - lie down on the glass walkway and get a selfie."
"This place is as busy as Penn Station--and just as charmless. It is a wayside stop on the spectacular Icefields Parkway--where you can get bad food, reasonably clean bathrooms and very expensive tickets to ""walk on the glacier""--along with thousands of camera carrying strangers. This is one of these places where you take a picture to show your friends you have done it. There is nothing beautiful, quiet or grand about huge buses disgorging thousands of people onto dirty ice for a few minutes--its just a really good scam, marketing genius really."
A must do if one is in the area. The ice explorer vehicles are incredible..huge with giant tires and powerfulThe staff is all young and there for the summer and appearing to be having a great time. Saw mountain goats licking the rocks by the side of the road Time on the glacier is short but totally adequate and interesting. Definitely a worthily experience
"This is a ""must see & do"" if you're in the area. Try and get on an early bus, before 11:00, as it does get quite crowded. Get on the big bus at he Center, 10 minute ride to the snow machines. 20 minute ride, or so, out to the ice fields. Our driver was most entertaining with his banter and information on the way out to the field. You get about 20 minutes to walk around while on the ice. It really is quite beautiful. Take an empty water bottle to fill up with the melted water, which is quite drinkable and safe. This is an entertaining and educational trip. Take the kids. Go! Buy your tickets on-line before you go."
One of the most outstanding road trips in my lifetime. So many beautiful things to see. So many stops one can make along the way.
"If you have no intension of purchasing tickets to the ice field tours then don't bother to stop. We made the mistake of parking our RV in the west lot which is gravel, but the purpose built lot (read room to turn around) is north of the Lodge on the east side of the road. You can't see it as you drive north from Lake Louise. The lodge no longer has an interactive display. It reminded me of a busy ski lodge with lots of lineups and booths and not much else. We did not take in the tour. The glacier is so far back it is not worth the stop. I heard from a friend that there is a six hour hike that affords a view of all the ice fields and is spectacular. It might be Wilcox trail. The Parker Ridge looks like a decent hike and only 5 k return. We were not going to hike. The Banff/Jasper highway is stunning and has magnificent lakes along the way. The Glacier lodge makes a good ""pit stop"" but not much to see from there unless you hike out."
This was part of our tour. It was very crowded and felt like it too many buses. Ice field seemed dirty from bus exhaust. I'd personally would rather protect the glacier from a distance.
"What an experience. We actually walked on the glacier. David drove us over and was very informative.. THe skywalk over the river nearby was an experience one should not miss, We had a beautiful clear day."
"For those in denial of global warming this is a difficult place to visit and maintain that view. In less than 100 years at the present rate of regression there will no longer be a glacier in the Rockies. What remains currently is stunning and well worth the visit. The ""visitors centre"" is actually a ticket office for the corporation taking visitors on overpriced tours of the glacier and the blatantly touristy, somewhat industrial ""skywalk"" over the valley leading to the glacier. If you would like information from the small Parks Canada desk don't arrive before 10am. If you want to see the glacier just pull up in the car park below the glacier and walk up the path to the viewing area below the glacial river and lake outflow. There are a few small companies that offer guided walking tours onto the glacier (the only safe way to walk onto it and a lot less damaging than the numerous special bus tours available from the ""visitors centre""). Worth a visit if you don't get sucked into the tourist trap offerings."
"We did not do the paid tour, choosing to walk up to the Athabasca glacier ourselves. It was a bit of a hike, you should definitely wear good shoes and bring a sweater or jacket. It was windy and started to rain when we were there. They have a lot of information posted, it's sad to see how much the glacier has receded. Pack a lunch if you can, the Icefields Centre has food but it's very expensive - $15 just for a burger. I am glad we made the trip to see it but wouldn't go again."
I have been to the glacier now 4 times in my life. The first time we went on the glacier with a oversized snowmobile that could hold about 15 people and had tracks on it like a tank. Now they have large busses with space age tires to go on the ice. This trip instead of going up on the bus trip we chose to do the short hike up to the toe of the glacier. it is about 1.8 KMs round trip and is fairly easy to navigate. we found it very interesting seeing petrified wood and amazing rocks that had been scarred by the glacier dragging rocks across them. Rushing water and thick ice was scenery at its best. I would highly recommend the hike.after our hike we went to the icefield centre and viewed the gallery and watched the video that they have downstairs. we later had a meal in the cafe that was great at feeding a lot of people in a quick amount of time
A trip from the visitors center takes you from the hustle a tourist destination to a chance to see nature at its finest. Be careful when walking on the ice. It is slippery and a slush develops. The Ice Explorer vehicle is amazing. Anyone in the area needs to so this.
"We had pre-booked and pre-paid for a trip at 1300 to go to the the ice fields/glacier. When we arrived at 12 we stood in a que to check in for 30 minutes. When it finally was our turn - they rejected us and offered we could go on trip at 1700. After debating we got our booking agency to talk with the staff it was suddenly possible to go on the trip we booked at 1300.However following there was a lot of delays going to the glacier - we we did not set foot on the glacier until 1500. On the glacier there were about 100+ people in a very small area.A lot of guest were frustrated over delays etc. If Brewster and Columbia Ice Field handlers want to treat the guest that way, I would just wish they would consider the work environment for their staff having to handle the frustrated guests and the employees not empowered to make a difference. Mother nature is amazing - but the experience was ruined how it all was handled ...."
Plenty of parking. The climb up to the glacier is hard. The cold wind did not make it any easier! It was freezing! But in the end when we reached the glacier it was worth it.
"Wow!!!! What stunning scenery..... Mountains, glaciers(even in summer) and lakes all the way. Unfortunately smoke from fires in BC and locally, caused the views on our return trip to be reduced significantly. We were just lucky to have a couple of days in between trips."
"The entire tour was disappointing. Poorly organized. Bad weather had many tours delayed and cancelled but no information shared. No announcements, no information boards. One woman at the centre of a swarm of people. Then a coach bus across the road to board an Ice Bus that takes you out to the glacier. There is a small area that you are able to walk around on that is swarming with people and then you get back on the bus. Not worth the $100 fee."
"Beautiful drive along the highway with multiple glaciers and huge ice fields. The surrounding mountains and the glacier lakes are all stunning. There are crowds during the summer months, but it is worth the effort to see these natural wonders."
"We went there in a group with teenage kids. I found the cost of the tickets bit pricey. We bought a ticket for Glacier and Skywalk. For Glacier we went there in a special kinda bus and stayed on Glacier for around 25 mins. Total tour time was around 2 hrs and most of the time was spent in bus. Our Guide was a girl named Dakota who took us to Glacier. I was hoping to get more information on Glacier but it was typical tourist friendly tour and more emphasised on experience.We took some empty bottles with us to fill Glacier water as we were told "" by drinking that water you'd feel younger"" . Well for me it was not the case :(.From there we went on the Skywalk which was for me a scary one cos I'm Acrophobic. But can't miss the experience of walking on glass watching depth beneath."
We had a wonderful driver on the Ice Explorer that explained so much about the glacier. It is amazing to stand on a glacier and see white and mountains all around you. Take an empty water bottle to get some of the cold water running in a small stream. Dress warmly--it was windy when we were there. Glad I had on several layers and gloves.
Very well operated and run. All of the staff so helpful from booking the trip to arriving and during the trip.
Visited here on a trip to jasper for a one night stay. This is a spectacular place to see With climate change it is receding quickly so best to check it out soon!
WOW what a beautiful drive from banff to Jasper. The highlight of the drive was stopping to see the Columbia ice field. The parking lot was almost full and the hike up the hill to view the ice was not easy with slopes and jagged rocks. Chilly at top of the hill but the view was amazing. We did not get out on the ice as we did not take a bus tour but still a great stop
"We pre-booked tickets for the Skywalk only, because we weren't 100% sure if we would be able to do both of the tours. We drove from Jasper to Banff and planned on doing the Ice Field on the same day. Definitely can be done but we weren't too sure at the time and decided to play it safe. We got to the Ice Field and we realized we had a heap of time on our hands! So we tried to book in to do the Glacier tour, and it was completely booked out. We were disappointed as you could imagine, but the Skywalk was still amazing! You might drive past the Skywalk but you don't pull up there, there is next to no parking space. So you go to the Discovery Centre down the road and park your car, go inside and redeem your tickets for wristbands. Then when your tour time is called, you line up and get taken out to the buses, which then take you to your tour. A bus goes back to the Discovery Centre like every 15 minutes or something like that. I deeply regret not seeing the Glacier, so don't be like me! Go see it!"
"Every turn revealed more stunning views. Don't miss this drive if you are visiting Alberta. This waas where we saw the most wildlife, including bears, a big horn sheep and deer."
"This was very cool to see. We stopped and did the tour of the Athabasca Glacier. Even though the tour was short, it was pretty cool to see and be on and to hear about the ice field. It is very cold on the glacier, so dress warmly."
"When driving on the Columbia Ice Field Highway it's hard not to notice the Athabasca Glacier and all its grandeur. You will want to stop and you really should since the glacier continues to recede, and there is no better time to visit than now while you still can. There are a couple ways to go out and see the glacier. You can either book the tour at the visitor center right across the street or do the trail that lets you walk up to the toe of the Glacier. If you have the time and budget, I recommend doing the tour which takes you onto the glacier by snocoach. There you have 20-30 min to walk on the glacier (you can even drink the glacier water like some people did). The trail is fairly short and straight-forward but you don't have the experience where you can walk on the glacier. Note, the visitor center also has a restaurant and hotel (Glacier View Inn). While staying at the hotel allows you to see the sunrise, sunset, and stars over the Athabasca Glacier don't expect much from the outdated inn. I'd also stay away from the restaurant, the people that did eat there complained greatly about the food being mediocre at best."
"Beautiful,and scenic.Impressive and the place where temperature dropped from 27C to 9C. Dress warm and enjoy!"
"We had the good (or bad!) fortune of experiencing snow when on the glacier in July. This entire trip was thrilling and enjoyable for all ages. Much less treacherous on the glacier than I envisioned, so I felt a little more relaxed having my young children up there (though obviously we held their hands). Guides were friendly and informative, and it seemed well orchestrated for visitors' safety. Did run about 30 minutes behind schedule the day we were there, but it was unavoidable due to crazy weather. Highly recommend the Brewster experience! That said, the Skywalk was not significantly impressive to us (beyond the architecture), and you can get great views from other natural spots."
"To step on a real glacier is a most do. Well informed staff take you to the foot of the glacier. Enjoy the crystal clear and clean water.
Rug up and enjoy the time you spend on the ice."
"This centre is busy and usually heaving with visitors. You can either take the skywalk which according to my friends wasn't worth the money. I went to the glacier instead and having had rain, hail and snow all within the course of an hour it was quite a wait to visit the glacier. It was very cold whilst waiting but worth it. In the summer months the glacier is quite slushy on the surface so be careful where you stand. A friend of mine had her foot stuck knee-deep in melted puddle even though we stayed within the limit imposed."
"One depressing thing about visiting this sight is that as you walk towards the glacier, you are presented with signs showing where the toe of the glacier ended at various times in our recent past. It is depressing because it is SO obvious that the glacier is rapidly disappearing. And what is there shows little signs of being replenished - instead being covered in dust, smoke and dirt as it recedes. However, visit it while you can - when it is gone, you will be sorry (in more ways than one..) One small complaint is that the Canada national parks service provides one toilet for one person at a time, between the car park and the path-way to the glacier - a 15 minute wait in a queue for one of our party! Having been in Canada for a week or so, I am coming to the conclusion that Canadians apparently like to queue (based on queues so far which should be easily able to be reduced) - this is ridiculous for a natural attraction which seems to attract hundreds (and probably thousands) of people every day"
"This was an incredible experience to share with our kids! Once we got out to the ice field, we had half an hour to explore, take pictures and even drink some of the glacier water!"
"The icefields pkwy is a must do and the Columbia Icefields and Icefields Centre are a must see, as well as a good midpoint to stretch your legs, use the potty, and hike to the edge of Athabasca Glacier."
"We took the ""ice explorer"" up to the Athabasca Glacier. I was not sure I wanted to go because I had fell on the glacier in Glacier Park, but this glacier was not slippery at all. The ice sort of ""gave way"" under your weight and was not slick. With all the other ice explorers, I never saw a single person slip and fall."
Mike Field was an amazing tour guide! He knew what he was doing and was quite hilarious. He made it a visit I definitely won't forget! Great for our first time
"The ride along the parkway is scenic but you cannot see much from the parkway. To actually see the Ice field you must take the Brewster attraction tour. Fifteen years ago my husband and I went to Alaska. We took a helicopter ridge out to a glacier. We walked on the glacier. The company took great care to not bring any external dirt onto the glacier. They provided boots and parkas. They also enforced staying safe. It was incredible. So I really wanted to see the Columbia Ice field. Unfortunately, Brewster is not taking the precautions to avoid outside contamination. Yes, they wash the wheels of the vehicles that go out to the ice field but as for other contamination from shoes, they don't seem to care. Given the number of vehicles and thus people out on the glacier, between grit and other contamination, they are hastening the loss of the glacier. Anyone who has used salt on ice and snow knows, anything not pure water will lower the melting point of the ice. It does not matter what the substance is just how many particles are present. This is basic science and is called freezing point depression. Grit will wear the ice down through friction. Given the sheer number of people walking on a small area of the glacier, there are a lot of particles and grit added each day. As for keeping people within the safe area to protect them, in the 30 minutes out there, there were more people outside the red cones than in. Our guide explained the danger before we were let out on the ice, but none of the guides did anything to stop anyone from either being or sending their children out to get better pictures."
"Take the Sno Coach ride onto the Athabasca Glacier to walk on a glacier that will only be here for another 100 years. A bus takes you from the Discovery Center to the transfer site where you board a Sno Coach which takes you onto the glacier. Watch your step! Ice is melting and some people got wet by stepping in a hole and some fell down. Drivers are informative while narrating the trip. The Discovery Center has rest rooms, gift shops, and cafeterias but be warned, food prices are steep. The skywalk is a unique glass walk built out over a river valley far below and it offers beautiful views of waterfalls, river, and mountains."
amazing trip with my family this time..with Patrick who is drive the big bus...he is wonderful and knowledgeable.great
"While in Alberta, Canada recently we took the Columbia Ice Field tour with Brewster Travel. Once we arrived at the base of the glacier (Athabasca Glacier) we met up with Bruce, our guide and driver on the special Ice Explorer vehicle. Bruce must have done dozens of these tours but made us feel special and he shared lots of interesting information on the glacier and the unique 6-wheel drive vehicle used to transport us to and from the glacier. It is one of those things that should be on everyone's ""bucket list""."
"Good stopover between Lake Louise and Jasper. Probably need 2/3 hours. The glaciers are amazing. If I had to cut anything out for money reasons this would be it. It is good but you can see the glaciers almost as well from a carpark at the bottom, on the other side of the road from the glacier centre. Glacier skywalk was pretty unimpressive, you can see the views just as well from the road."
"We made reservation in advanced that is a must. We went on the glacier walk, which is a must to do We also reserved the skywalk, which is something you really do not have to do at all. In the building of the Columbia Ice Fields there is a great movie that you must see. Its in the basement so most people miss it, plus its free."
"There are hordes of tourists visiting this spot in Alberta. Make a reservation in Banff or online so you can be assured of a time that is convenient. Parking can be difficult too because of so many visitors. A bus takes you to the glacier coaches which look like huge tanks. Since the glacier has receded somewhat over the years, it takes about 10 minutes to reach. You spend about 20 minutes walking on the glacier and another 10 minutes returning to the Visitor Center or going to the ""Glacier"" Skywalk nearby. What an experience stepping on a glacier. The Glacier Skywalk really has nothing to do with the Columbia Icefield or Athabasca Glacier."
"I saw the ice field as part of a tour group which is a good way to see this site. This is a very popular tourist spot, so it was nice to have this all organized for us. I would wear shoes instead of sandals and wear a jacket. It is windy and cold on the glacier. It takes a little to actually get on the glacier. First it is a bus ride out to the land rover trucks. Then you get into this massive truck for the slow ride onto the glacier.You only get about 15 minutes on the glacier and a very small area to walk on. I wish we would have had more time and could walk farther on it, but it is dangerous and there are many small cracks with water running down. The guides don't really give too much info about the ice fields, so I bought a book about them in the gift shop. There is only one expensive restaurant at the ice field center which had an OK buffet. This is something I think everyone should experience before the glaciers disappear."
"Just stopping in the visitor center and driving by the ""attractions"" convinced us that it would be time and money wasted. The trip onto the glacier is not much more than can be done by parking at the base of the glacier and doing a short walk up to it. The ""sky bridge"" or whatever it was called gives you a view of rocks and a lame little valley that you can see just as well from you car and pullouts. Save your $100 or so per adult for eating out or gondolas or something!"
Definitely worth the visit. Fascinating look at glaciers and their surrounds. Steep climb to viewing area but he right is amazing.
"The Columbia Icefields were spectacular. I loved this excursion. I enjoyed going on the ice buggy, to the glacier and the skywalk. Expensive, but a great experience!"
"We did not pay the large fee to go out on the glacier tour, but still enjoyed the view from the visitors parking and the center. It is a very cool sight. Skipped the overlook. Didnt want to send the money."
"It''s a tough walk, but well worth it! The ice field has diminished somewhat over the years, but it is still an amazing sight. There is a convenient car park at the start of the walk, and it takes about 30 minutes there and back depending on how fit (or old!) you are. You can take a fairly expensive tour bus if you are concerned about the effort needed. A great experience."
"actually, you walk on the Athabaska Glacier, which comes from the Columbia Ice field. It is quite a dance of buses and guides and our bus fell through a crack when we were supposed to be driven straight to the SkyWalk from the Glacier, but were instead returned to the centre. Sandra, our Quebecoise driver on the ice, was charming and reliable. the ice explorer buses are incredible and it is a once in a lifetime opportunity for most of us to walk on a glacier."
"We arrived late morning and since the other tours were booked, we took evening on ice tour that included appetizers on the glacier and then a great buffet dinner. What made the tour for us was that we were only 9 in total so we had the bus and glacier to ourselves as we were the last tour of the day. It didn't include the skywalk but in the end I think we got a better deal with this option. We had a great guide - Kyle along with Jade and then Seamus on the glacier - were all knowledgable and great with our kids. For dinner, we had Adam serve us - also very helpful. I'd definitely recommend it."
"It may be quite expensive, but you really can't visit the Rockies and not do it. The glacier bus tour can no longer be done on its own as it is combined with entry to the canyon Sky Walk which is also a thrilling experience. The commentaries of the drivers of the coaches are very informative and helpful too. Highly recommended."
Drove through at a very bust time of the year. Views are stunning. If you want to visit the skywalk you must purchase your tickets at the information centre and a shuttle drives you there. We drove past the entrance on the route from Jasper and did not see any signage so had to stop and ask. Be prepared for ftraffic and crowds and that is early morning too.
"First of all, if you know in advance you want to do this, make online reservations ahead of time otherwise you may have to wait several hours to get on the next tour. Get there at least 15 mins before your tour. I love the way the drivers are assigned to the buses. You do not get the same bus driver throughout your tour. It works like clockwork. Extremely well done. The first bus takes you to the ice field drop off. It's a 7 minute drive. You get off the bus and wait about 5 mins to get on the big busses that go into the glacier. It takes 15 mins for the trip there. They are big rigs that have a special engine that can take you down the steep hill to the glacier. Very cool. Once on the glacier you get approximately 30 minutes of ""ice time"" which is sufficient. It was great. Took lots of pictures. Have a better understanding of why our glaciers are retreating/melting. Did you know you need an ice age for the glaciers to grow? Or even stay the same size? I believe in climate change but the reason the glaciers are melting are not due to climate change. If it's not cold all the time, the ice is going to melt. Just saying. Wear proper footwear. If you can believe it, women with flip flops went on this tour. Crazy. It is ice. It is slippery. Dress accordingly. Bring an extra layer like a sweater or jacket. It is cool (and if windy, will be cold).I loved this tour. It was so informative. Jessica was our driver on the glacier. Great job Jessica. Mitch picked us up from the glacier pick up point and took us to the Glacier Skywalk. But that's a different review. Highly recommend both tours."
"Probably save yourself the cost and observe the glacier from the carpark. However if you are entertained by observing people ignoring instruction and dancing with danger I highly recommend going on the ice bus tour! Once you make your way through elbowing tourists racing for a seat on the bus and have the privilege of listening to inane questions such as "" is it real ice?"" on the way up you can then quietly observe people angling for the best selfie as they ignore the verbal warnings and sign posted areas warning of danger of thin ice and hidden crevices. Call me boring. SMH."
We experienced the only place in the world except Antarctica where you can walk on a glacier. Thanks to the informative team well done and worth the effort
"A great experience and very well organised by Brewster - a ""must do "" if staying in the Jasper area.
Cheers- Jules"
we stopped for an hour and took an easy walk as far as we could go.. we wore sandals and that was a mistake because it was not so easy but definitely worth the time and effort
This was part of our tour. The vehicles that took you to the Glacier were amazing. You were able to get out and walk on the glacier for about 15 minutes.
"We had such a great experience taking a ride in those monster truck that will ring you on top of the glacier. The ride was tricky as it goes to a deep incline but our driver Patrick was an excellent and entertaining We got to walk on the glacier, took so many incredible pictures and had an experience of a lifetime."
"The views that you get from driving to the Icefield Center are awesome, so many mountains around you which look awesome in all kinds of weather. The road there is very dodgy, there are bumpy bits with no warnings and potholes dotted around. Be careful please! Some parts of the road are awesome and fresh, then it just gets terrible at times.One of the annoying things driving past & doing the tour is that we are told not to stray from the paths if we go on a trail as it destroys the history around it, which I agree with. The problem I found was that there were so many people off the trail just below the Glacier, no police or Parks Canada around to tell them to get off. People just do what they want, trying to get a good photo for the present, but in the future it has long term effects. I think there needs to be more enforcement of this, especially when it's so busy and so many people are doing it at the same time.The Centre is very expensive, so if you're looking for something cheap! I wouldn't bother. The trails around it are very nice if you don't mind the hike! They are free and get better pictures as well."
"It was a long drive from our hotel in Banff to the Athabasca Glacier. However, it was worth the trip. Get tickets ahead of time so that you don't have to wait in line. We got out tickets thru the Brewster travel Company. Thus, they shuttled us all the way up to where the all-terrain vehicles were parked. Our tour guide Sam was hilarious and made the trip so much fun."
"Visiting the glacier was an incredible experience and one that will probably only happen once in a lifetime. The glacier is slowly melting and we were told that in 10-15 years the tours will probably discontinue due to melting. The 'joy ride' to and from the glacier in the large terrain vehicle was cool and the tour guide was great and informative. We also were allowed to drink water from the streams on the glacier. It's extremely cold on the glaicer, so bundle up well. I would definitely recommend this tour while there's still time to do it."
"Brilliant experience. Run like clockwork. Can recommend highly!
We went with a group of fifty tourists from many countries. The collective agreement was that this visit was a highlight! ??"
So much snow in such warm weather. It was a great site so many people walking on the snow. It was so cool LOL. It was very busy.
"To be honest, the drive there is more impressive than the actual glacier. Which, in a weird round-about way makes this a must see attraction. The drive is great - but pay attention to the speed limit....it drops to 50 real quick and those coppers are usually out in full force."
"So AWESOME!!! We camped in Canmore and drove to the Glacier Discovery Centre.We had just heard about the tour, so we didn't know you could get discounted tickets 48 hours ahead online. We paid $94 CAD. We were able to get tickets when we arrived, but it was for 2 hours later. We shopped in their gift shop then ate in the cafeteria-style restaurant, they have a sit-down restaurant but it was for big groups only. A bus took us to the edge of the glacier then we boarded the Ice Explorer, Maddie the Explorer driver was GREAT!!!, she was very knowledgeable, funny, and she has a great singing voice. Thanks Maddie for the experience. Stepping onto the glacier was amazing, we didn't slip even with tennis shoes. The water in the many streams was really good, some people put some into their water bottles. The view was breathtaking!!! We walked on the glacier for 30 minutes.Back on the street bus we drove to the Skywalk, Patrick(Pat) was our driver and he also was knowledgeable and funny. There is a short walk to the Skywalk with info about the area, a park ranger, and metal-sculpted life size animals. I was hesitant at first to walk on the Skywalk, but Pat told us it can hold the wait of 3 Ice Explorers. First we looked down while walking, but that was scary so we walked than looked down. We walked the whole thing and talked to Jessica, an employee. She asked if we wanted our picture taken on the Skywalk. She used our camera and took several great pictures, thank you Jessica. Buses come every 15 min., so you leave when you want back to the Centre. This tour is for any age, use the washroom just before boarding the bus from the Centre.We live in Idaho and plan on going back again this year."
"when ever you travel the weather can make it or break it. when we stopped in June it was still in the 30s and crazy windy.
But it was still worth driving out and walking around."
The Athabasca Glacier is something to see and remember. Spectacular in size and scope and fun to get too. Take the monster truck with giant tires up to the Glacier and then walk around on the ice field. Worth the ticket price
"We were driving from Banff to Jasper. With it being 180 miles and an almost 4 hour drive, this was one of only two places with food and toilets. So it was a very welcome site. The discovery center, as they call the main building is very modern and contains a restaurant, shop and ticket counters for the ice-field tour and Skywalk. The view of the ice-field was nicer from the second floor. Since we had just been on an Alaska cruise, we had no desire to take the expensive ride on the ice-field. It didn't look that great either."
"This is a beautiful place to visit. Make sure that you book your time slot well in advance to ensure you can secure it. The tour is in two parts, the glacier and the skywalk. Our driver/guide on the glacier was Patrick ( who was so good, he should have a glacier named after him). You get about 30mins free time on the glacier, then you are driven by coach to the skywalk. The glass walk it's self is quite small and does get crowded but all in all the whole thing is worth the price, and the scenery is spectacular."
"An unique and amazing experience to walk on Ice filed and see Glacier nearby. The ride in the vehicle Ice explorer in itself is exciting. Climbing down and up 36 degree inclination , the experience is unique"
"We spent three hours on the Athabasca Glacier. I highly recommend one of the walking tours rather than the ""bus"" version. Our walking tour was a safe, interesting, and very educational hike.It is not a super difficult hike, but it does have some challenges including the hike up the hill to the begin the hike. You will need to be able to step over the many small streams that run down the glacier. If it is sunny, be prepared with sunscreen. It was hot on the glacier the day we hiked. Have fun and enjoy the stunning beauty of this wonder of nature"
"We went there in June so the weather was great . We parked our car and took a lot of pictures. Magnificent view in all angles, so worth the trip! Best thing we did was we took the Glacier walk tour and it completed our unforgettable experience. I'll definitely be back!"
I can't believe we walked on the ice fields/glacier! OMG!!! First...the vehicle they use to transport you in is almost space craft looking. One tire on it costs $5000! Then you get out and walk on the ice for a bit. Took lots of pictures. Then road back and saw goats on the way. It is a cool experience.
"What a fantastic activity to do with Brewster. We pre-booked the Ice Field Adventure and Sky Walk which seemed a little expensive when booking but it is totally worth the money. The Brewster team have it organised so well and it runs smoothly, you never feel rushed and they make it good fun. Our driver Nick Sledger was brilliant, funny, engaging, informative and just made the experience that but better. The skywalk was also really good experience and the audio guide added another dimension to the attraction Great afternoon activities Brewster, thoroughly worth while"
"it was awe inspiring, majestic cold but breath taking. like outdoors this is a definite must do! Its an experience to experience! Not sufficient words to describe this beautiful place !"
Just beautiful. We enjoyed it. We went from Banff to the glacier tour and back in one day. I was afraid it'd be too much but it wasn't at all!
"Great time. Good value for the money. Not as cold on the glacier as I expected. Bring a paper cup to trap some water from the crease in the glacier, very cold and pure. A good tip provided by our hotel concierge. Did the platform walk also. Also enjoyable. Great viewpoints and camera moments. Glacier is slippery so be careful"
We like to stay in the rv lot overnight. It's about $15 and you can hike to the toe of the glacier. We have done the tour in the past and it's super expensive. The view is great though. The canyon overlook this seems a bit overdone
If you have never been on a glacier and can't afford a trip to Antarctica this is the place to go. The all terrain monster bus that takes you onto the glacier is an experience all by itself. The scenery is breathtaking. It is one of those adventures that make you glad you did it but not leaving you with a craving to do it again.
"Arrived at the Ice field and was a little nervous to be going out on the glacier, but I had no need to worry. The driver of the big wheel vehicle was so witty, but reassuring, we had a great time, they had laid on a few thrones to sit on for a photo shoot. The ice field is amazing I'd recommend it for any visitor to that area of Canada. From there we drove on to visit the glass bridge which I believe is the same design as the one over the Grand Canyon in the US. There was plenty of information about the wildlife in the valley together with samples and written information. There are plenty of staff there also to give you more info about the glass bridge itself, it's scary but fun all at the same time. Enjoy I did."
"A fantastic experience. It is quite breathtaking to be out on an actual glacier. Fantastic photo opportunity. Really well organised and all bus drivers are helpful, provide lots of information and have a sense of humour. The ticket and eating area was very busy, food at cafe very basic. Plenty of restrooms."
An interesting trip worth doing. Walking on a glacier is a cool experience. A bit pricey for what it is. The Skywalk that is combined with the ice field visit is a bit of a let down.
We were slightly late for our tour but the staff accommodated us which was v kind of them. The experience of the tour to the ice field is exceptional
"Our tour to the glacier was enhanced by the knowledge of Maddie our tour guide.
Maddie was very entertaining and enlightened everyone with her wit and pleasant manner.
I would like to compliment Maddie and all the staff at Icefield Parkways for the wonderful day."
I'm so glad we stopped here on our drive and took the time to hike to the toe of the glacier. It was a very refreshing walk to stretch our legs and absolutely awesome. Be sure and wear some shoes with some traction and definitely don't forget the camera. It's also worth it to stop and read the signs with historical and geological information about the Columbia Ice field.
"Of coarse this is something you must do if you travel this way. It was the only thing we reserved ahead of time. We left Jasper and had a 10 AM ticket. It might have been OK without a reservation that early but by the time we were back from our ride the place was crazy busy. Lots of tour companies bring people by the busload. The experience itself was windy, cold, and refreshing to drink the cold water... see it and enjoy!"
"We did the glacier ice walk. You have to get yourself to the glacier - one hour of scenic driving from Jasper. They provided walking shoes, gloves, hats, clamp ons . . . It's a bit challenging for us (in our 60's) but SO worth the effort. Our guide was very knowledgeable and safety was her first priority. Views are breathtaking. We looked at the busses bringing people to the top and we're glad we chose the hard walk instead of the bus."
"pushy, nasty, disrespectful visitors who will bulldoze you over to get where they think they need to be to go somewhere in the Centre or to the buses. They smoke everywhere and throw garbage anywhere they wish and no one says a word. The glacier is getting gross with diesel fumes and garbage. if you are driving on highway 93, the Icefield parkway, you can go there yourself, but be aware that if you haven't pre-ordered your tickets you may have to wait a few hours or a day to go on the ride."
"Best thing about being in the Jasper or Banff area is the vastness and natural beauty. It gets ruined by huge mobs of tourists and especially ones that are not respectful. The ice fields themselves are brilliant and beautiful. The tour on where you ride the snow bus and walk on the glacier is great. Everything else was slow, busy, crowded, and really ruined the experience. You can walk yourself up to the glacier yourself, so next time I would have done that instead."
"The Columbia Icefield is massive and produces a number of glaciers which emerge at this point on the Icefields Parkway. There is quite a lot of infrastructure set up at this site, with a large visitors centre, offering food and drinks and a range of tours, including hikes, and motorised transport out to some of the glaciers. It was very busy on the day we visited. Having spent a lot of time in Alaska the week before looking at glaciers (in somewhat less crowded conditions) we just took in the view, had some lunch and headed on our way. There are not a lot of such options along the Icefields Parkway (Bow Glacier is another one)."
"It was a scheduled stop on a coach tour, so we didn't have the otherwise typical uiisances, like line-ups for tickets and long waiting time befor getting on the bus, taking visitors to the edge of the icefield. We had a very smooth run and within minutes we were transported up to a spot where we boarded an enormous snow and ice negotiating vehicle. With this we travelled to the glacier, the realm of permanent ice and snow. Awsome experience, especially for those overseas visitors, who have never seen or seldom see snow and ice of such proportions. We had a guide in this enormous snow mobile, who unfortunately spoke so fast that it was practically impossible to understand.However, this was his very first day on the job and I am sure he has improved a lot since then. Visiting this snow field was an interesting experience, highly recommended to anyone who can afford the time and expenses for a brief visit!"
"This will be a unique trip to most people. This is not yet another hike, or another beautiful landscape to photograph. This is a bus ride onto the top of a disappearing entity. They hold you to the time you requested for the bus ride and so better make sure you're on time. The day we went it was raining and they almost cancelled out on us. So, bear that in mind as well. Who knew it was gonna rain in July?? But they made us do the skywalk tour first and then the bus ride. They let you spend 1/2 hr on top of the glacier but that 1/2 hr goes by fast. We drank one of the purest water ever and even brought back some in a bottle. It gets freezing cold up there so carry a thick jacket with you if its not sunny. Checkout the picture I posted, the glacier is receding fast. But what is weird is that they did not once mention 'global warming' as the reason for its receding. I guess the reason is obvious."
"How can something given by nature not be excellent.
Didn't make it all the way to the Glacier, as it was a bit steep and ws a little worried about the climb down. Very peaceful."
"We enjoyed the ice field experience, it was totally amazing. We booked online, and was given a time slot. We got there earlier then our time and was amazed at the large queues of people.... we was unsure what this was for. Apparently there was some delay and the two time slots before us were still waiting so there was total disorganisation. Eventually we managed to get allocated a coach for the first part of the tour. The tickets we purchased included the sky walk which we went on following the ice field experience. This personally wasn't that great! If I could have just booked the ice field tour I would have done so. All the young staff were very pleasant and did their best, most of which were new this season....I think there could have been much better organisation within the main centre, which would have reduced people complaining to the guides!"
"Booking on line was easy and saved time in line up getting tickets. Was very busy and a little confusing in the discovery center as to were we needed to be. Once on the bus,driver Sam was full of great information about the area and glacier formation. Transferred to snow buggy, driver Sam was fun, had great stories and lots of information. Was amazing getting to walk on the glacier, take pictures & drink the water. Even our kids and patents had a great time. Make sure you layer up, very cold wind comes of the glacier."
Absolutely one of the neatest things I have done. Riding in an artic ice explorer was an experience I will remember forever. Jordon was an awesome driver as well as knowledgeable about the Glacier. He and our Brewster host Ben were enjoyable.
Very Expensive and massive line-ups to boot... not worth the money to stand on a piece of ice! Jasper definitely has more to offer
"A visit to Jasper National park has to include the Columbia ice field.First impression on arriving at the reception area was one of total chaos. There were hundreds of people all pushing to get to there allotted times. Seriously the greeting area needs some work to start the tour off on a good footing.The icefield itself is a fantastic sight, a true wonder of nature. The tour guides on each of the buses were quite knowledgeable and gave both useful and interesting bits of information out.Although you are standing on a block of snow it was not as cold as I expected. Some spectacular views of the other icefields can be seen.The initial issues slightly put you off, let's hope they sort this out before the icefield completely melts, but overall a wonder of nature that has to beseen."
"Never in my wildest dreams did I believe that I would stand on a glacier. Bruce our driver of our ice field explorer explained about the glacier and ice field and ensured that everyone was safe. Go if you ever have the chance, take it - a memorable journey that's unique."
"Not a huge amount to tell, but it was a great experience to be allowed to walk on a glacier. The trip up was fun and the driver was a very knowledgeable lady who added to the enjoyment. Something I may never be able to do again.We loved it."
"I was a bit reluctant at first due to the cost. We had visitors from Europe who wanted to see it. In the end, it was well worth it. The glacier is much smaller than in the past, but still huge once you are on it. An awesome experience that was well worth the money."
"Totally unprepared for the trip to the Ice Field/Glacier. Transportation down and up was a little scary, but worth it. Don't wear sandals and bundle up...it's cold!!"
"The whole package is very fabricated and commercial. A lot of waiting and transport (bus to the truck loading and snow truck ride) for 20 minutes on the ice field. It is not very majestic on the edge of the ice field (standing around 6 huge trucks). If you don't like crowds and fabricated/commercial experiences, you would be better off finding a nature hike in the many other unspoiled areas of the Canadian Rockies."
"Just a stunning adventure - the snow trucks are enormous, the history is palpable, the driver was funny and informed. Loved the Glacier adventure. Then it was straight off to the skywalk and more breathtaking views."
Enjoyed our stop and hike to the glacier for photos. Quite a steep climb up rocky terrain so wear closed toe shoes with gripping soles. If more time would have enjoyed paying guide to walk on glacier. Beautiful but sad to see how much glacier has receded through time.
We visited on a chilly morning. Our bus driver was funny and gave great info. At the center we also watched the movie about a boy and a rock (filmed on location at the Glacier.)
"We did this tour with Brewsters. The staff at the base station was exceptional - especially Chanda, who went out out her way to accommodate us on an earlier tour, for us to be able to join some friends for this unique experience!The glacier tour itself is a once in a lifetime experiences which is conducted very well by a group or young, energetic and team :)"
"We drove for one hour and fifteen minutes from our hotel in Jasper, luckily found a black bear on the way roaming near the road and kids loved it. You pass the glacier skywalk before reach the Columbia Ice field Discovery Center, although the skywalk was highly recommended by our Conceirge but except the glass floor which gives shivers to some nothing to write home about it and luckily we saved both time and money. There is ample parking at the discovery center and in summer the operate till 6pm and we got our tickets on the spot but I will advise advance Booking. First we boarded a regular bus that took us to the base camp which is like a kilometer from Discovery Center, there we boarded a special bus with High wheelbase and the amazing journey started. It takes you down the steepest road in North America with a 35 degree descent. On the way down,You can tell the glacier is melting fast unfortunately due to global warming. After a kilometer long but a slow ten minutes ride we reach the glacier and disembarked. Its breathtaking once you come out and don't forget to take empty water bottles so you can bring home some at source glacial water. It's really dangerous on the glacier so you have to walk slowly one step at time and stay away from marked holes and within the boundary and hold the hands of younger children all the time. We were allowed to spend around 10-15 minutes but it was more than enough before anxiety starts to bother one."
"If you are visiting the Jasper, Banff, Lake Louise area in Canadian Rockies, you must stop at Columbia Ice Fields. We had visited this place in June 2017 and had a fantastic view of the ice fields and glaciers. There would be various activities at that place. We had taken skywalk but it is a bit disappointing. The best thing to do is to take ride on glacier in special vehicles or time permitting, a long trek."
"This is a very special site, but we got unlucky with the weather. It rained and the wind blew at just the wrong time for us, which meant we only stood on the glacier for a couple of minutes instead of having half an hour. The the skywalk was then no fun either.That is just the luck of the draw, but do look at the weather forecast before booking your time. And take some waterproof clothing if it is wet.Also, if possible make the effort to get the first booking at 9am. You can have the glacier to yourself, instead of sharing it with a few hundred people.Whilst we got unlucky, we would still recommend it."
"It was my first time out to the glacier. It was a very neat experience! When we first got there, it was raining, but just lightly. We booked the Glacier Adventure Pass, which included the Sky Walk and the glacier. When we had boarded the bus, we were told that because of the rain we would go to the skywalk first and when we arrived back to the center we can ask when we could go to the glacier. The guys who did all the touring and driving were very informative and funny. When we got back to the glacier, we went to the ticket desk and they said to come back at noon, and we would be the first to go to the glacier. We went to grab a bite to eat, and went to the glacier. It was such a neat experience. I'd recommend bringing good shoes (not sandals) and a water bottle, as you can fill it with some of the glacier melt water. Definitely worth the money for the Glacier Adventure!"
"Nature is awesome. Visited information centre first, history of glacier fascinating. Visited the moraine, not too much of struggle going up the scree slope."
"as long as weather is reasonably nice, would recommend taking the tour. gives you a much better appreciation of the scale & size of the glacier once you are out on it. buy your ticket in advance to avoid the line to purchase onsite. several trails from the main building offer great views & interpretive signs."
"We decided not to book a tour on the Glacier, hence I cannot comment if that one is worth the money or not, but we decided to hike from the car park through the rubble train to the Glacier, which was already an experience.It is an impressive Glacier, and I would definetely recommend to pay a visit, even without an official tour, as the marks along the street give a really good impression how quickly the Glacier has diminished in the recent 20, 50 or 100 years, as it reached out all the way down to the street 100 years ago.Standing on is Glacier to me gives a good idea about the fact that we indeed have an ecological issue.Be prepared with some trainers to Clint the small ""hill"" and a warm sweater, as the wind from the Glacier can be quite cold."
Spectacular ice field. From the ice field parkway heading south to Lake Louise you can actually see this ice field and Athabascar glacier as you drive. It's a sight to behold.
"We did the combination tour of the Skywalk and the Glacier walk. The Skywalk is interesting and, probably, worth doing. The walk on the Glacier is very good. Our tour guides for the Glacier Walk (Paige and Lukas) were very good. Lukas, who drove the Ice Explorer, was particularly informative and helpful."
We did not pay the $90 Canadian for the Ice Adventure. We wish we would have. Doing this stop on your own is not worth it.
"Did the Glacier walk and the Skywalk. It was a great experience. The 1st driver to the Glacier Eric was great, sharing the history and details about the area. During the final ride to the Glacier it self, Dakota was awesome as well. Shared a lot of info that we would have never known. Best part though was her sense of humor. Great attitude and a great team you have working there."
"Be prepared for a lot of waiting. You really need to book your time in advance, before you get there - waiting time for a slot was over 2 hours. And get there early; the car park isn't big enough, and it took us 20 minutes to find a spot. (so we missed our time slot - they are strict). The main centre is heaving, chaotic, badly organised. The queues for the attractions stretch right back - so you're not clear which queue is which - blocking through - routes, eg the stairs up to the restaurant and café. There aren't enough staff members around, to provide assistance (the few there are hassled and stressed, trying to do their best). The visitor experience was therefore poor. Yes, the Skywalk is impressive (it honestly is ok to walk on it, even with vertigo!), and it's great to walk on the glacier. But worth the money? Or the time - they recommend allowing 3 hours, I'd say it'd be nearer 4. I don't think so."
It was an awesome experience to walk on the Athabasca glacier itself. Riding in the Ice explorer buses are an experience by itself. Learnt a lot about the geography of glacier formation and movement. Loved it...
"Visited in July. Do the Skywalk and the Glacier walking experience. Daniel, Sarah & Alex were awesome. Buy tickets in advance and consider an evening dining option for the glacier visit."
"Immense ice field. From the ice field parkway heading north to jasper, you can actually see this ice field and Athabascar glacier heading toward you. It's a sight to behold. We took the Brewster tour and rode in one of their ice tour bus to go on glacier. Make sure you book at least two days in advance on line in order to get discount on ticket price. This is not the largest glacier in jasper, but it's a worthwhile visit. You will be standing on ice layer that are like ten and thousand years old. I say it's a must visit."
Wow - what an experience! From the visitor centre to the iceway vehicles to actually standing on the glacier. It had snowed a couple of days before we visited and was a wonderful sight. Highly recommended and not to be missed!
"I remember these Ice Fields from the 1960s. Just between 1967 and 1974 our family saw significant changes occurring. While people who have never visited will be impressed, my daughter and I were sad to see how diminished they have become."
This is a once in a life chance to stand on a glacier. Everyone should come here and experience this
"Right on the ice field pkwy, this glacier has a visitor center, restaurant, outside seating and a lot of tour buses."
"When we went it was snowing horizontally and really cold - even in the summer. The weather can change in an instant so be prepared.
A must see fantastic adventure. remember to take an empty bottle to collect your own glacier water."
Columbia Icefield is the largest ice field in the Rockies of which Athabasca Glacier is only a part. The ice is receding & the glaciers shrinks by about 5 ft per year. Worth visiting before they disappear from you!
"You can buy this on its own or as part of the ultimate explorer package including the Banff Gondola, a lake cruise and Sky Walk. It is also cheaper to get the tickets online. This place is around 2.5 hrs' drive from Banff and approx. 1-1.5 hrs from Jasper. There will be allocated departure time. If you are doing both Glacier Icefield and Skywalk, they will bring you to the Icefield 1st before the Sky Walk.You can walk on the Icefield. They allow you approx. 20-25 mins to roam around and take picture or even try the water flowing through the glacier. It can get windy up at the icefield so it is better to dress appropriately. Overall, an interesting experience.There's ample parking lots available and there is eatery at the ticketing office/check in centre."
Went on a Brewster tour to the Athabasca Glacier in an ice explorer and loved it. The tour also brought us to the skywalk which was also quite a thrill. would recommend this tour to see these things up close.
"Columbia Icefield is shrinking and the opportunity to step onto Athabasca glacier is likely to cease in the next few years.
Go now before it's too late!"
"This is a great opportunity to walk on a glacier and get to fully understand what they are and just how powerful they are.The special transport vehicles - it seems unjust to call them buses - that are used are fascinating in themselves and the commentary from the driver (Dakota in our case) is lively and enjoyable.It is , of course, cold outside the vehicle and you are confined to a small area for a short period of time so that as not a problem.Take an empty water bottle and fill it with the delicious glacier melt water. Is it ice age water or from last winter? It was such a wonderful shade of blue when we were there"
"I loved seeing the glaciers and the ice field. my husband would rate this tour 5/5, while I'd be at a 3/5. We rode onto the ice field in huge ice explorers, which was fun. However, being given 15 minutes to stand around on a sheet of ice didn't make a lot of sense to me. It's not the safest thing to walk on. There wasn't any interpretive information being given. I didn't quite get the attraction of that. I can stand on ice all winter long at home. It isn't a glacier, but when it comes to standing on it, it feels the same."
"What an amazing natural site. We took a monster truck up onto the Glacier, our guide was amazing Kyle who was very entertaining and added to our experience with his enthusiasm. The glacier is receding, we felt privileged to see this site."
It's amazing to have such a good highway that allows access to the glaciers. This is definitely one of the 5 best drives I have ever been on in US/Canada.
"It""s a beautiful drive along the Icefield Parkway and worth a stop at the Columbia Ice Field (Athabasca Glacier). We did not take the transport that goes out right onto the glacier but others said that it was good. The walk up to the base of the glacier is longer/steeper than it looks so good footwear is a must and keep in mind that it is very cool there."
We visited as part of the Rocky Mountaineer tour. It was sobering to see how fast the glacier and ice field were melting and to realize at some point they may be gone. The driver/tour guide was knowledgeable and added to the experience with her comments and humor.
"An amazing experience.When we went (actually in 2003), you could still walk out on the glacier.Quite something to see the markers of how the glacier is actually melting faster than it is advancing.Make sure to get an idea of what it has looked like over the years."
This is a must do if you are in the area. Being able to walk on a glacier is awesome. Huge purpose built vehicles transport you up onto the glacier and guides explain everything you need to know about glacier formation and the surrounding area. Such a great experience.
"If the weather is clear - you NEED to take this adventure. Our driver Mattie made the short drive out n the tracker quite enjoyable and informative. When you get out on the glacier notice the colors of the snow, ice and water!. We filled our water bottles with glacier water - incredible taste and clarity- don't drink too much too quickly -your body may not be used to such purity. Even with other people around - it was like walking on another planet . Imagine -- that ice was formed thousands and thousands of years ago ! Breathe in the clear mountain air ....fantastic. Dress in layers - if the wind comes up it can get quite cool - if the sun is beating down you need sunscreen....and wear proper shoes or walking boots . You will be walking on snow and ice ."
Couldn't get near discovery center. Mid day VERY crowded. We parked across the street and hiked the trail ourselves. Cold and windy but very exciting. Take water when you climb and dress warmly. Wear appropriate footwear. No flip flops or sandals Be smart. Be careful with children
"A great spot. Enjoyed walking on the ice and got great pictures it was a great tour with Harry, who was very knowageable, and patient ."
"The Columbia Icefields include views and experiences of the receding glaciers in that area. Depending on whether you have the time to tour this area, what the weather is like at that time and how much available cash you have budgeted for, you experiences will be different to mine. The views are amazing as is the Alberta region."
"This was one of the highlights of my two week trip to Canada. Not many people can say they have experienced Summer and Winter in the same week! We stopped off here on the way from Jasper to Banff and went up onto the ice field on the big wheeled busses. Never before have i seen anything like it so the ride onto the ice was a thrill in itself. Our driver (I think his name was Patrick, i may be wrong) was very informative engaging and funny. I was slipping and sliding all over the ice field and was clinging onto my friend for dear life, so wear sturdy shoes. I wore VANS which i presumed would have grip, maybe its just me though. The only word I can use to describe the ice field itself is beautiful! I filled up my water bottle from the ice cold, crystal clear stream and it was the best water i ever tasted. Tip - Wrap up warm and take sunglasses, its very bright on the ice! Take a water bottle to fill up too!"
"I joined Brewster to Columbia Ice Field twice, one in last year June and this time in June as well. Both experiences are equally beautiful! I also took the transport from Jasper to Lake Louise from Brewster and as it drives past the skywalk and glacier, the views are really beautiful! Highly recommend that you take this transport if you do not drive. It gives you the most scenic drive view! Thanks to the driver who highlight to us what is coming up along the way!"
"For a centre that informs us that global warming and climate change have seen this glacier reduce so significantly, that at current rates it will be gone by 2100 - they don't seem to have an issue contributing to the problem by running bus after bus back and forth, having people walking on the glacier and running bus after bus back and forth to the skywalk (waste of money, don't bother)The glacier is stunning, it's sad to see how much it's receded - but don't contribute to its demise all for the sake of the $"
The visitor center was really crowded and busy. We ate at the cafeteria and they were sorely understaffed and under prepared for the lunch time crowd so that was frustrating. We did take the bus and the ice explorer up to the glacier. Both drivers were very friendly and knowledgeable. It was a great experience and I would do it again but I would eat lunch somewhere else first.
"We are in Jasper for a couple of nights on an organised Saga holiday from UK through to Calgary, Banff, Jasper, Rocky Mountaineer and cruise to Alaska. We stopped off here on our way to Jasper. It depends on your point of view.You are taken by coach and ""Ice Explorer"" up onto the Glacier where you spend around 15 minutes on the glacier taking photos and looking at the scenery. Some would say @what was the point of that? My view was the experience of standing on a moving river of ice, realising that it is slowly melting glacier (tho not slow enough), and realising also how mankind is unable to prevent it, apart from controlling his likely contribution toward it.There is no doubt that as it is privately owned it is commercial. However by encouraging Joe Public to go on this one, he is not helping to further destroy other glaciers.I found it an aweinspiring experience, not much there, not long on it but wonderful nevertheless. You choose, look at it from a distance or take the opportunity presented."
"We had traveled through the Jasper National Park some 12-13 years ago but the view was covered in fog, so we weren't able to see much. This time, the weather was fine, and we enjoyed the trip from Canmore to Jasper via the Ice Fields Parkway. The views are spectacular, and we did the Brewster's coach onto the glacier, and the viewing platform. Worth the money. If travelling through, allow time to stop and explore."
"What a unique experience this place is. Definitely a must-see. The whole experience is very well,organized and our icefields explorer guide Sandra was so much fun and so entertaining and knowledgeable. She made it a great experience."
"It's a nice attraction, the glacier is just beautiful, different from anything I had ever seen. The guides are very friendly and give us a lot of facts about the glaciers. You take a bus to the foot of the mountain where is the glacier. There, you take a special bus that takes people all the way to the glacier. Is very cold in the glacier, so it is best to choose warm clothes and waterproof shoes, since you step on a lot of ice, snow and water."
"Interesting to see, a great tour, but makes you really think about global warming. Great view of the glaciers and of the valley. A must see when you are traveling in the area."
"This excursion sat a little uneasy with me. The whole thing seemed like a well oiled money-making machine where hordes of tourists are bused to these ""Ice Explorers"" which then take off to the glacier. It's all very well organised so that at any given time, there are masses of people on this one section of glacier basically standing around trying to get the best pics and selfies. You get only about 10 minutes on the glacier before being transported out again. But in saying that, 10 mins is all you need as you're not allowed to wonder very far and there are people everywhere."
"We did this as part of a bus tour on our way to Lake Louise. I must say that I found it interesting, but I would not do it again as these giant ice buses drive you up to the glacier, you get off the bus, walk around for 15 minutes, get back on the giant bus with giant tires and go back to the tour bus. The trip up and back to the glacier takes much longer than the time you stand on the glacier. And guess what, it is melting FAST and you can see just how much by viewing pictures of where it was just a few years ago. I felt guilty as an environmentally conscientious person to be doing this. You can view the glacier from the place across the street and not contribute to it demise."
"Getting on the glacier shows you the vastness . New visitor center. Gets VERY crowded!! You can make reservations online ahead of time. It takes a full hour to get to glacier, spend 20 or so minutes and get back to center . When in glacier you can drink the glacial water right in the open channels. Bring a cup. The ride to and from is amazing. The drivers are very knowledgeable and will answer any questions . There us a stretch of unpaved road at a 32 degree angle . Interesting exhibit in lower floor. 2 cafeterias. Nice restrooms. It is a MUST SEE along the Icefields Parkway. Kids will live it. It is much colder on glacier so hat and gloves are a good idea ."
You will not regret the trip to the Icefields. It is a place that needs to be seen but also respected. Standing on a glacier is one of the most amazing things to experience. The drive onto the field is an experience all of its own. Very memorable.
As soon as you arrive its awesome ! You then get the shuttle bus to the glacier and board the ice rucks which are brilliant. Just amazing to be on the 1200 ft thick glacier and have a wander around taking fantastic pics - what a totally fab experience all round.
we did this trip with Discover Banff Tours whom I can highly recommend. The trip was highly organised with a good guide.
We went to the glacier but did not book onto the bus tour. parking at the bottom of the glacier it is possible to walk up to a certain extent but that allows decent views without the very expensive tour price - Worth a visit!
"The view and the experience were worth doing, although it was a bit crowded when we went at 3 pm. Drink the glacier water, but take from the moving water! We were a bit surprised at how short the visit was on the glacier (20 minutes or so). Pat, the Hoff, Hoffman from Ottawa was a great and entertaining host. The Skywalk, with the audio guide, was excellent and had no time limit."
We gazed out over the ice field and watched buses going up and on to the glacier. We were at the visitor centre. The views make excellent photos. We did not take the bus up to the glacier. This is one on hundreds of lovely views on the icefields parkway.
"Wonderful experience to walk out on the Glacier and see the works
of God. The ride was terrific, great Explorer."
Was driving by and decided to check it out. Never being here before we were unaware of how it worked. When we were asking each other where do we get tickets a RUDE lady clearly working there piped up ummm you buy them from someone who works here. She had the worst tone to her voice it was appalling. Went for the views and didn't even get to go on the sky walk because the worker was so rude it put a terrible taste for that place in our mouths.. at least we were able to get some nice pictures. You'd think for someone working with tourists they'd actually be nice haha.
My wife and I were going to do the tourist thing and do the Columbia Ice Field exploration. We drove down from Jasper and went to the Discovery Centre to get our tickets. Surprise! You cant buy just a Glacier Tour you have to buy a Combination Tour which includes the Sky Walk. We did not want the Skywalk so we decided to just have lunch check out the views and head on to Lake Louise. If you want to do this Combination Tour search the internet for discount options. This location is full of tourist buses so get there early morning or late afternoon.
"A wow experience! Despite the snow and the limited time at the Ice field to control the human interference with nature, One can enjoy the trip and understand better about the Glaciers over there."
lacierOn a fairly long journey between these two resorts we stopped to do the trip by snowmobile on to the Glacier which was an interesting and spectacular trip taking about 2 hours weth interesting commentary from our driver.
"When we arrived it was windy and cold and we were glad to have warmer jackets with us. This is a difficult place for anyone with mobility issues and I would suggest bypassing this if you are in a wheelchair. We were there on a cold June day and it was very, very busy. Maybe in the summer they are equipped better to handle crowds . IF you plan to go onto the glacier or do the sky walk consider buying your tickets in advance so you don't have to wait in line. There is a ticket package that includes both of these plus 2 others ~ I believe the Banff Gondola and 1 other. this would be a good first thing in the morning activity"
We had been in Canada for 4 days when we reached here. Nothing could prepare us for the sheer beauty and majesty of this place. Going along The Icefields Parkway itself was sensory overload. The majestic snow capped peaks are something else. This experience will take some beating!
"the Columbia ice field is Breathtaking . You must not miss this site. we were very lucky the weather was clear so the views were wonderful. I took many photos, so special."
Challenging drive to the ice filed in jeep/bus but quite safe. Incredible experience to walk on the ice field
"The 230 kms stretch running from Jasper to Banff is full of amazing scenery. The route runs through many glaciers, waterfalls, valleys and rugged snow capped mountains on both sides of the highway. You can see many beautiful spots as the route runs through two national parks, Jasper and Banff. And, if you are lucky you may also encounter some wildlife! This is one of the best drives in the world.We did this day long trip with Brewster."
"The drive out onto the glacier in a $1.3 million vehicle was interesting, they are work vehicles but are good at what they do. Walking on a glacier is a tick off the bucket list. It is cold and it started snowing for us but there are not too many places you can do this."
"I am so glad that I visited this Icefield. With some people saying that it wasn't worth going, I think that it is. Yes, it's quite expensive, but how long will we be able to experience a walk on a glacier? Just by looking at the markers on the way to it, one can see how much it has retreated since the 1940's. It's an eye opener to how much our climate has impacted on the ice fields. The Skywalk is breath taking also as when you are driving we take in the beautiful mountains, but rarely pause to look at the valley."
This is an absolute MUST see. We stopped on our way from Jasper to Lake Louise. Took the ride down with SunDog Tours. Our guide took us everywhere here and provided us with insight into the glacier and history. It is a wonderful trip.
Oh my.....words truly cannot express how magnificent and breathtaking this drive was. I am so glad my husband chose to take this highway. It is well worth it. If I had one thing to say about this is .......DO NOT MISS OUT on taking this highway.
The place has a hype about bus trips to glaciers but there was a snow fall one day before we went. The rputes were closed and the issue was that the tourism office was not twlling wxact time till when the services will be closed. They spoiled our day out of own grewd of selling tickets.They have made ticket packages which werw very awkward and costly.
"I recommend brushing up on your glacial geology before visiting the ice field. The history of how the glaciers created the topology you see here is fascinating.
Luckily for my travel mates I took some Geology classes in college and could translate tour guide terminology."
"Imagine you are standing at the Information Center and look across and see these small dots on the Glacier. Yes, those are the enormous buses. and the really small dots, yes, those are people. WOW. Then you get on a HUGE bus, the tires are 5 feet tall, and take a 4 minute ride - at one point you think you're going over an cliff - it's like a roller coaster ride in slow motion. You arrive on the Glacier and get out and walk around. It's nothing special and yet it really truly is at the same time. You are standing on ice that is thousands of years old and hundreds of feet thick. WOW"
"There are plenty of glaciers in Canada, and this without doubt is one of the best, certainly something to see. But not sure it was worth all the cost and trouble to go up to the ice field just to stand around on the ice for about 10 minutes."
"Travelling through Icefield Parkway was one of the most exciting road trips in Canada. Absolutely stunning images of the Rocky Mountains in the middle of summer with snow on peaks and green forests in lower parts. Every turn on the highway brings surprise. The glacial has retreated a lot over the years so there is a little g walk but it's totally worthy, makes you think about climate change impact on our environment"
This is a must for travellers. It was absolutely fantastic. Views stunning. You can walk on the ice field and there are seats for photo opportunities.
We saw the Athabasca Glacier 2 days in a row. Once with grey skies and snow and once with blue skies. Spectacular.
Taking a snowcat type vehicle across an icefield is not an everyday experience so this was fun from the start. You are right on the glacier and hav e plenty of time to explore.
This was an absolute highlight of my trip. We arrived in the morning and a bit of a snow storm. Got up on the Glacier - cleared up and was HOT! Much hotter than we expected - don't forget your sunglasses. The drive up and down to the Glacier was part of the experience - very knowledgeable guides.
"We did the tour to the Glacier, well worth the money, it is just amazing to stand on a glacier that's up to 100 meters thick ????"
"Coming back to the Ice Field some 33 years later I was very disappointed, first, as to how much it has receded. and secondly, how commercialized it has become. Global warming has taken such a toil on the icefield because I have pictures that show the face of the glacier looming above you and near to the paved road. It is not as I remember it. Now you have to walk a good distance to the face, and being much older now that walk is not doable for us. The commercialization of such an attraction is disheartening as well. Tourasses all over the place. We did not even attempt to go to the centre as we were there to see the glacier. Pass on by boy when you get there."
"We passed by on the highway and the view was so gorgeous that we really had to just park the car on the highway (luckily the traffic was few), and took in the views.There had been a really heavy snowfall the night before (it was in may!) and there were no tours operating when we were there. Coming from the tropics, I've never seen a glacier before and to get to see the entire area white and icy, it was a lifetime experience."
"We took the arctic cat to the glacier and carefully walked around. The ice was melting in many places so my tennis shoes (with mesh) were not the best choice. There were 2 adirondack chairs out in the middle of nowhere, which made for great pictures (""Just chillin""). Be sure you have a hat or hood, as it can be very windy. We loved this excursion!"
"The guides are brilliant, the vehicles are huge and the glacier is beyond awesome, well worth it and do drink the glacier melt water . You can't be up there long but a great experience."
"The day before 25 degrees Celsius, then suddenly 5 degrees. Did not take the bustour, but walked up the hill to get near the
icefield. Very steep but doable. Be sure you have some warm clothing. Great experience."
We had great weather for this excursion which was a bonus. Coming from Australia we don't have the opportunity to see scenery like this so we felt very privileged. There was plenty of snow and ice and experiencing the drive down in the Ice Explorer was amazing. The driver had many interesting facts and details to impart so made it a very pleasant and fun experience. Considering the number of tourists it is well organised and executed.
Fun experience to go on the glacier and walk around. The large vehicles you travel to and from on are amazing.
"We took a break from our trip from Banff to Jasper to take the bus shuttle to walk the skywalk. It had a great view, interesting displays and helpful staff."
"I love going out on the glacier and learn all the interesting things about glaciers vs. ice fields. The ride onto the glacier is informative and interesting. It's very cold, even if it is hot at the visitor's center. Be prepared. You can take your own mug or water bottle to fill up with fresh, cold glacier water.mwhat a great experience."
"We stopped and took pictures on the way to Jasper. Later in the day a lot of people in this area. Went through early coming back down and hardly anyone there. Wasn't as impressed with this, to many people and not much different than any other glacier"
"This was one of the highlights of the tour, absolutely awesome and a must see. Try a drink of the Glacier water cold and tour guide spun yarn that its age reducing qualities so I did and did nothing but was very nice to drink melting from very old Glacier. Will visit again on next trip well worth it, spend time and view it all."
If the thought of standing on a Glacier (ice) is going to be thrilling then go ahead enjoy but I think it is highly over rated. You get out of a snow mobile bus for 20 mins or so and there is nothing to do. Yes take a photo but the Glacier is better photographed in perspective from a distance like standing on the verandah of the Icefield Parkway building. By allmeans do the Skywalk just down the road as it is awesome. Cheers and safe travel to all
"There are better attractions for sure but it's worth a trip
There are what look like very good trips into the glacier but you will need proper clothes and footwear"
"We had a fabulous day at the Columbia Ice Field and Glacier, even though, there had been blizzards the days leading up to our visit and we were not able to go out on the Ice Field. The scenery is spectacular as it is everywhere in the Canadian Rockies"
Wow...we love all natural phenomenon and wildlife so this was so interesting and informative. Tour was fabulous and our driver Bruce was awesome :) ... yes...we drank the glacier water !!
"I wasn't surprised that the weather was gloomy on the glacier. I went with my husband and a couple friends as we were making our way from Banff to Jasper (beautiful drive). Wear something warm and shoes that have grip. The guides were fantastic and funny. My driver Pat (the hoff) was energetic and enthusiastic. I also met some guides (hosts?) on the glacier that were a hoot. A tall, handsome gentleman answered my questions and we also got to chat with a lovely lady with dark hair and an Aussie fellow. All in all, it was expensive but worth it."
"The glacier has been turned in to a pure money grab, the food at the discovery centre was over priced and the sno-coach was a waste of time in my opinion, it was only worth it to drink the glacial water which was exquisite."
"Wow what an interesting experience! My biggest peeve was that it was expensive and I could not choose just the glacier adventure option on its own (i.e. tickets are for glacier adventure + skywalk as a package, which cost nearly $100 per pax)Nonetheless, good experience. Tour guides were also very entertaining!"
"The color of the pool of water before the walk up to the glacier was absolutely beautiful. Turquoise in color. We filled our water bottles. Delicious. If you have heart conditions or breathing problems, do not attempt the walk up to the glacier."
"I like glacier, and marvel at the sight of the Athabasca Glacier when we reached the Icefields Discovery Center. But I felt disappointed with the trip down to the glacier. Probably because it was crowded with people walking around to take picture and bottling the ice water. We had to wait and wait for our turn to take a nice picture of the glacier in the background. But we were restricted to walk around in designated area and with so many people, you are not going to like it. It was similar situation at the Skywalk. Maybe we were there at the wrong time (1pm). Probably better to go in the morning. Personally, I felt it's not worth it to pay so much for both. It would suffice to stay at the center to admire the view, and take nice pictures."
My daughter and I went to the Columbia icefields from Canmore. It was a 2.5 hr drive that was just breath taking. The tour itself was well organized and the staff was very fun and informative. We saw big horned sheep and mountain goats. It was definitely worth the trip. Dress warm.
"Being Canadian I really didnt need to experience ice and snow however this was an education in a very picturesque part of the world.
Beautiful mountain drive."
"Once in a lifetime chance to walk on a glacier that is quickly receding. The visitor center is over run with tourists, but it is worth putting up with the crowds - they are there for a reason! Specialized ice coaches take you out to the glacier. The drop (32% grade) down the gravel and dirt road to the glacier is something out of an amusement park. Super Kyle was our guide. He was quite fun and made us confident in his ability to get us back and forth safely. Walking on the glacier is quite and experience and the views are amazing. A definite Top 5 destination in the Canadian Rockies."
This is a fascinating area where huge specially designed buses take you directly onto the immense glacier. Driver information both there ad back was very informative and amusing.
"On our journey fto on Calgary to Vancourver we stopped at the visitors center at the Columbia Ice field.We found parking for our car easily and then proceeded to the viewing deck where we enjoyed a light lunch while taking in the extremely beautiful vistas.The whole center was clean and well run, although it was crowed with tourists we did not feel boxed in and the flow round the facility worked well.We took a tour to the ice field glass walkway which was spectacular and very interesting, all in all a worthwhile stop on our journey"
"Just did a quick stop as there were lots of visitors and the parking lot was full!! As it was still early in the season, I can only imagine how busy it must be during the summer. Still was definitely worth stopping!"
"Visited here as part of a package holiday. Sad to say the glacier is melting as an alarming rate. Personally I would take this off of the itinerary and close access to visitors, only to see at a distance and not walk on it."
"It was great to be able to visit the ice fields and experience standing on the Athabasca glacier. The views were fantastic and we were really lucky with the weather as the mist and rain set in not long after we finished. The staff are friendly and full of banter, but also very knowledgeable. It was pretty touristy though and we were told that in high season there are around 5000 visitors daily so choose your visiting time wisely."
We stayed at the ice fields for the night then got on the first tour off the day this was great as we had a 56 seat bus for the 6 of us When we got to the Glacier it was just the 6 of us and 3 staff something special Our driver a Chila from Australian made it special took photos for us and didn't rush us at all and she was very informative Then we went to the skyway wow the staff were great but the view was unreal. I would definitely do it again BUT then we went back to the Discovery centre and had lunch a cold soggy hamburger at a cost of $12 Brewsters need to look at this as they have a great experience but the food is shocking
"Stopped here on our way to Jasper.Thought it was a little expensive for what it was but they do have a lot of people and machines, so I can understand why.Anyway as an ""added bonus"" you also get to walk on the skyway- more about that later.We got straight on a trip. First they load you on a coach that takes you to another area closer to the glacier itself. You then get on a vehicle that is specifically designed to travel on the Icefields. The tyres are huge - about 5 foot tall. Journey time was about 10 minutes and a bit bumpy but good fun nonetheless,You are allowed 30 minutes on the glacier and then you get transferred back off the Icefields and taken to the Skywalk.I'm not a great fan of heights but did the walk. You get a free audio guide that tells you all about how they built the walkway. Mine was in Chinese - so I didn't learn about the build but Idid learn some new phrases.All in all worth a trip."
"The visitor center is the place to sign up for the Icefields bus that takes you out onto the glacier, but I was disappointed that there were no interpretive exhibits. It's certainly worth taking the Toe of the Glacier hike, but I'd skip the visitor center unless you need to use the toilet."
"This is considered one of the most scenic drives in the world and I can now understand why! Everything was incredibly big and the road offers several stops to enjoy the view. If anyone was planning on just stopping at Banff, I'd highly recommend they go up north a little bit through this drive and to jasper. It's breathtaking."
This was a bucket list adventure for my partner and I. We arrived looking to see if there was a chance we could get on a same day tour. The helpful woman at the desk was able to get us on the next tour so we only had to wait about 10 minutes. We were helped by a number of helpful and professional staff members during our trip. The staff run a super efficient operation that has a ton of moving parts. Very impressive. Our Ice Fields driver was Dakota. She was really funny. We had a blast. The glaciers were beautiful and amazing and the staff was knowledgeable and eager to share their knowledge. I would highly recommend this trip.
This is a great Canadian Bucket List experience! Equally fun for all family members! The drive to get to ice fields is beautiful and riding the glacier bus is cool! Great tour guides too!
"Great experience going up onto the Glacier and walking on it. Very cold, safe vehicle and friendly guides."
It was really cool to be taken to the Icefields to see the glaciers. You are surrounded by glaciers on like 3 sides and it just takes your breath away. The driver of the vehicle was cool and funny and overall a pleasant experience.
The ice has receded a long way from the parking lot and at the present time you are unable to actually walk on the glacier without taking a guided tour. You have to walk over rough and hilly terrain just to see the face from a distance. It is a fact of life that nature (some say aided by man) is taking its toll in this uniquely accesable wonder.
"we did this trip on a freezing day with light snow falling and it was a stunning experience, our driver gave a very funny but informative commentary and the short bus trip was fun. strongly recommend it as excellent value for money"
"Visited here 45 years ago as a kid - could not believe the difference in glacier coverage (or non-coverage to be more precise). Everything from the staff, the reading material, and the gift shop are good. But the star is the glacier itself! Truly worthwhile doing this trip!!!"
"We stop to Columbia Ice Field on our way from Bannf to Jasper. It's about a 3 hour tour. The drivers were amazing, funny and good explanation. I recommend this activity."
"We were heading in massive buses. Their tires were super high for better traction on the snow. Inside the bus we had windows everywhere, as well as at the ceiling. We could see everything around us. Wow!Once on the ice field, we walked slowly, but there didn't seem any danger of slipping. The landscape was amazing. Snow was everywhere and still, some mountains had hardly any snow. Other mountains were filled with ice.The driver told us that if we drink melting ice, we will get younger. My wife drank a lot of it. Not to be younger, but the taste of the water was super fresh and delicious.We enjoyed our time here, in a world I didn't know it existed. Too soon we had to leave, but I will have lots of pictures to remind me.It is truly a must to see! Quite worthwhile!"
Parking lot was close by. But on a busy day it would be hard to find a spot. 15-20 minute walk to the boundary at the foot of the glacier. Sad to see it receding at such a fast rate.
"We were slightly disappointed with the visit to the glacier, you can tell you were here for the tourist dollar. The vista on the highway was beautiful"
"Very approachable glacier and after know more about glacier history, you would know the importance of environmental protection."
"A must visit , Ride up onto the Glacier with some excellent tour guides. Our driver/guide was Ness and she certainly had personality and excellent manor. The whole experience was fantastic. Only advise, get here early ! its 2 hrs from Banff so all the tour coaches arrive around Midday !"
"Well worth the ticket price for a trip out onto the Columbia Icefield, very knowledgeable staff who gave information on the glacier and surrounding area. Then onto the skywalk for a chance for more epic photos!"
This would be the biggest must see along the Parkway. You can pull off into the discovery centre and get a tour onto the Glacier. Or pull off onto the other side of the road and walk close to the toe of the Glacier. They have marked the points along the way where the Glacier has receded and it is quite interesting.
"We took the Glacier Adventure (Glacier and Glacier Walk) and it was so much fun. You really don't need to be all suited up. I just had on my regular sneakers rather than my waterproof ones and I was fine. It was cool, but not cold. Very pretty and interesting. Glacier skywalk was done very well and highly recommend at least doing that."
"If you are looking for a scenic drive with plenty of wildlife, this is for you. Watch for the bighorn sheep and caribou, elk and bear, too."
"The trip onto the glacier by explorer truck is brilliant. Despite the number of visitors you can walk on the glacier without crowds and feel the size and scale of the ice - and of the freezing temperatures. The trucks are a marvel and the drivers are students and researchers in geology, glaciers and geography. I found it fascinating - despite having climbed extensively in the Alps and crossed many glaciers, I learned a lot of new information.The visitor centre has a good movie well worth watching. The restaurants are motorway service calibre so park up and walk the trail out to the toe of the glacier. The scale and beauty will impress you."
"This was a major disappointment - long queues, minimal glacier, too crowded. As skiers, we thought that this was really a bit of a joke. Try if you have never ever seen snow but otherwise a bit of a waste of effort."
"They charge about $100 to get a ride to walk on the ice. We decided to drive to the glacier toe (just a minute drive from the visitor center) and walked to the base of the ice field. It probably took 30 minutes round trip and you get a good, close up view for free."
"If you are driving thru, it is worth the stop. I imagine there would be more to see if one took the ice sled tour but we didn't have the time. The restaurant is ok if your hungry but overprice in my opinion."
"We had really bad weather, so very cold, almost no sight. Normally you visit the glacier and you can take a short walk on the ice. The sights are not enormous, but remember, in 30 years or so it is gone due to global warming. This is your change to see a glacier!"
I've never seen a glacier and it was beautiful. Had to drive quite a long way but worth it. skipped the skywalk. It was small and expensive and didn't have a view of the glacier.
"Busy but exciting attraction, be sure to book your ride on the ice explorer to avoid disappointment. You even get a chance to walk on the ice (sensible shoes), peer at crevasses in the distance and maybe witness a small avalanche in the afternoon.. Entertaining guides, lots of humour.Well worth the drive from Jasper or Banff."
Never got tired of the view of the glaciers...beautifully amazing! Will absolutely come back again to have another glimpse of this awesome creation!
"Been there in Spring and in Summer. In April the area is covered in snow. Hard to see the end of the glacier, but its there if you look carefully."
"My wife and I took the Brewster tour of the Columbia Ice field Parkway from Jasper to Lake Louise. We traveled in mid-may and the only thing that I can say is that it was breathtaking. Brewster is a fantastic tour company with knowledgeable and friendly staff that went out of their way to be accommodating. We saw black bear, mountain goats, elk and deer. The ice field was great going out onto the glacier in a huge snow tractor then having a lunch at the visitor center that was more food than one should eat. I highly recommend all of the Brewster tours. Brewster is a top notch company that I would say is the best that I have experienced in our many travels throughout the US, Canada, Mexico and Europe."
"Definitely the highlight of the tour from Vancouver! Especially for a native of Singapore, the view is spectacular. The journey to the Icefield involved taking a slow moving tractor which took 5-10mins. It did kick up a lot of dust on the way which means the windows are closed throughout the journey. Given there is no air conditioning, the heat is unbelievable under the sun and well worth the trouble. We were told to tip the driver. All together, the stay on the Icefield lasted no more than 20mins.PS - we had some water from the Glacier. It tasted no different from bottle water except colder."
A short bus ride took us to a large passenger tractor that wound it's way along a road surrounded by ice to eventually deposit us on the glacier for a short walk around. Then a return to the bus which then drove to the glass viewpoint hanging out over the canyon. Then back to the base depot. Good driver's commentary giving lots of facts with some jokes didn't make up for the high price of CAD 94 !!!
"Instead of going for a tour from Jasper, we drove down to the Columbian Icefields discovery center where we bought our tickets for a combined tour of walk on glacier and on the skywalk. The time to start the tour depends on the crowds and we got ours in apx 45 minutes. Initially a bus drives all to a bus stand where visitors are reloaded on to a monster bus with apx five feet diameter and three ft wide tyres that are meant to drive on the ice top of the glacier. After apx ten minutes slow journey we were offloaded on the icy glacier to explore, enjoy and take pictures for half an hour. The experience was great and memorable.Then the same monster bus drove us back to the bus station where we again boarded another normal bus for trip to the skywalk.The experience of walking on an ice layer that may be apx 1000 ft, is really exiting and memorable. If you are in Jasper or Banff, do not miss to be there."
"I won't get into a debate on what the cause is, but to be here in-person and see the year markers (at least those still remaining) laid out showing the reduction in size of this glacier over the years is remarkable. I never grasped the magnitude of this glacier until having visited this site. We didn't do the excursion, just did the individual hike up nearby - within the corded off viewing area. It is chilly and windy there. The glacial water is insanely cold. A lot of informative signage along the trail. Definitely recommend you wear shoes - and if a 'cold' person, perhaps a sweater or coat. We hadn't anticipated being allowed up as near as you get - and I was wearing flip flops... not ideal, but I survived the walk through the bit of snow on the trail."
This was our 2nd time on the glacier. The first was 20 years ago when we did the Ice Walk. This time we did the Glacier Adventure in the very large Ice Explorer vehicles. Definitely worth doing if you're in this part of the country. Great experience.
The icefields are a long ways from the parking that was open. Seems like we have moved from self guiding to paying big bucks to be chaufferred to sites nowadays. I believe its called gouging.
Riding out onto the glacier in the Ice Explorer was the hit of our tour. Excellent views and the chance to get out and walk around on the glacier was fantastic! Now's the time to visit these sights while we still have them.
"On our way to Jasper, we stopped for the Columbia Icefield Tour which also took in the skywalk a little further up. Hopping into one of the ice crawlers was an adventure in its own right. The icefield was huge and you get to see the full magnitude of nature's power. The driver/tour guide was very knowledgeable. Next stop, the skywalk is an awesome place to see the surrounding areas. Nice tour. If you can stop, do so. I guess the only downside is the price. It could be cheaper I feel."
"This is a ""must-experience"" for many reasons, the most obvious being the startling grandeur and splendour of this magnificent ares. The second reason is to see for yourself how the great glaciers – especially Athabasca Glacier – has receded over the past 150 years, giving unmistakeable proof of global warming. It used to be a raw place to visit with few amenities and some of us liked it that way, but now it is efficient and civilized: you can get up on the glacier easily by paying a fare, though they don't take you high enough to see the actual icefields. For that you might need to climb Mt Athabasca as I did nearly 40 years ago. Caution, this area is highly congested traffic-wise, and you are asked not to feed the often-numerous wildlife (especially bighorn sheep) that still come down to graze by the road. Snowstorms can suddenly appear out of nowhere."
"You get to ride in a monster bus, walk on a glacier and walk on a glass skywalk high above the ravine with beautiful views..what more can I say do the Glacial Adventure it is well worth it for all ages.Brewster has nailed this from the young friendly knowledgable well trained drivers/guides to all the very well presented displays and information."
"Stopped off here and went on the skywalk and glacier trip. Very slick system to bus you round the two sites, with staff pointing out the sites and geological features ( and the same jokes ). Glad we went and took in the views and experience. The sky walk was good, but the weather turned to snow when we were there so it impacted on views and little."
The ice field is huge and a must do is to take a special bus that takes you onto the ice field where you really get a feel for how immense it is. In some areas you can see how thick parts of the ice field are. Even had a small drink of water from the melting ice.
"This was part of a tour we had. You take a bus to a point where you switch to a monster of a vehicle capable of driving along glacier. Driver will give commentary on the drive to glacier. Dress appropriate. It is windy and cold. Yes, wear boots. Several people slip sliding around in inappropriate shoes. Great place to take photos ! If you don't pay to go on the glacier vehicle, you can walk around near the Discovery building which has plenty of parking and also experience the beauty of the icefield. This will be a trip in itself so don't over stress. Its all beautiful. Keep your camera charged, and take binoculars if you want to see in the distance."
This was a fun tour! The guides were knowledgeable and the trip in was an experience in itself. You really have to experience the wind to realize how strong it is. Included with the Glacier tour was the Skywalk tour as well. I am afraid of heights so didn't take part but my husband said it was a fantastic experience. Be sure to stop for those tours. They are well worth your time.
"This has to be a must if you're travelling through the Canadian Rockies. The tour is run efficiently by friendly, helpful staff.
It's cold out there but the sights are worth it.
Dress for snow and icy winds."
"93 CAD gets you a on a bus which takes you to the ice Explorer mobiles which then take you to the glacier where you can stand about for half an hour. After this the ice Explorer gets you back to your bus and back to the centre OR the bus takes you to the skywalk which is a metal walkway with glass floor which extends over the canyon, very impressive and the surrounding scenery is also spectacular. At the centre there is parking on the same level as the ticket office if you have any mobility issues, the main carpark has many flights of steps up to the ticket office."
Thoroughly recommend this tour. Lucas was our driver and he was brilliant. A must see while in Canada.
"But the cold is exceeded by the grandeur of the glacier. It is receding at an alarming rate, and is not so spectacular as it was 45 years ago."
We went up there with the 4 wheel drive vehicle and transfer to snow coach bus.It is amazing feeling that you are walking on the surface of glacier ice as tall as Eifel tower. and see Canada flag. I would like to join hiking group if I have time. It is the rustic old place and a long wait line for the limited number of people can go there. We went there in August and still cold.
We did the glacier adventure as well as the Skywalk and both were entertaining. Admittedly there isn't much to do once you are on the glacier and we pretty much took all the photos and did what we wanted in 15 mins and then went back to the glacier bus to stay warm. The ride on the special bus is quite entertaining and the driver was a big part of it as he provided great information.The Skywalk is another 10 mins or so from the Glacier and the bus takes you there. Walking on the glass platform is quite challenging at the beginning but once you get the hang of it is quite fascinating. This was also a pretty enjoyable experience.All in all both are one of those things you had to do since you are here even though it is very pricey - but what choice do you have?
"Of course this is the big attraction in the area, but the cost might be prohibitive to some. But even as a once in a lifetime experience, go for it!What really makes this unforgettable is the very friendly and personable guides. They have excellent knowledge and even have some decent jokes. Each time we have gone the weather has been remarkably good. So I have no advice if you plan to go and the weather is poor. Be Sure To Dress Warm! It can be very cold and Very Windy on the ice."
It would great if the park and the guides could stick to geology and glaciology. Everybody insists on talking about nothing other than climate change. Columbia Ice Field has not changed appreciably in more than a century (with year to year temperature changes always factoring in). The guides feel that it is their responsibility to make everyone apologize and commit hara-kiri over the climate change theories that they have bought into. This makes a beautiful visit to a natural wonder almost banal.
"Well arranged, but sometimes felt like number! Bus was great and the bus drivers keep us entertained. Overall was ok"
"I enjoyed my time when I was there (September 2014) but I will not do the Glacier Adventure again. It was super cool to experience it and learn about the glaciers themselves. I had a wonderful time with my sister here and we sat in the front seats and were able to speak with the nice driver and ask additional questions along the ride there. Being out on the glacier was interesting but extremely crowded. People do not listen to the employees whatsoever. There are so many warnings both verbal and signage posted advising you to stay within the perimeter they have set up. It is for your own safety and protection of the land but many people did not listen and took their chance anyways. Dress appropriately. I saw a girl up there with high heels on. No common sense whatsoever. Since I booked 4 adventures all at once, there was a significant discount applied which cut the cost of each adventure by quite a bit. The price alone for this adventure is quite steep but worth it if you are from far away and only have one opportunity to try it. I have heard that it won't be available much longer due to the glaciers rapid receding over the last 100 years (Parks Canada nor Brewster Travel have announced anything solid about this to my knowledge). There are markers along a road to the toe of the glacier telling you what year in time the glacier was at that point. Mind opening but truly sad to think about. If you don't want to or care to go up on the glacier with the group, there is a parking lot on the south side of the Icefields Parkway across from the Visitor Centre that allows you to explore the ground nearby. My sister and I used this time to check out the rock formations around the toe of the glacier as well as some blue ice that was breaking away from the mountain walls on western side. i enjoyed that experience more than the Glacier Adventure itself. I recommend doing this if you really only have one time to try it but for myself personally, I will only stop here for a break and the views as well as the personal wandering around on foot."
Stopped here on our way to Jasper. It is about the half way point. The day we went by the area received a lot of snow the night before. We choose not to take the tour because there was a lot of snow on the glacier. Instead we walked to the foot of the glacier. It was nice to see. We also read up about the area at the building. Not sure if it is worth the price to take the bus. It all depends how much you enjoy standing on ice. This experience maybe more worth while in the summer because it would be ice yet you would be in shorts plus during that time you can drink the ice water. My husband and I enjoyed just walking to the base and viewing the landscape. We stayed for about one hour.
Highlight of trip ....No one can just miss this place while going from banff to jasper ..its just amazing ..words cant describe the beauty of this place...highlight of our trip
We visited the Icefield from Jasper. We were blessed with a beautiful sunny day. From the information centre my husband and I walked out towards the Athabaska glacier. The first part of the walk was easy as we could walk on scree and rocks. As we went farther from the centre the snow was beginning to thaw and we started sinking into it. The views were beautiful and it was a very worthwhile activity. Meanwhile our son decided to take the Wilcox pass. This affords magnificent views over the glacier. To do this walk at this time of year good footwear is essential as it is very slippery and potentially dangerous on the way down. We met up at the visitors centre. The outside seating affords great views of the glacier. The coffee was not great but the yoghurt and bison burger were very good.
Awesome experience with beautiful Columbia Ice Field Glacier .Staff and tour guide were very knowledgeable and attentive .Gen from customer service were very helpful she worked at the desk .We will definitely try it again
"The drive (Jasper to Calgary or vice versa) is by far the most beautiful drive in Canada and one of the most beautiful in the world. Mountains, blue/green lakes, charming little ski towns, glaciers, winding roads and wildlife. What more could one want? Also, if you drive one way, it's worth the trip to drive the opposite way back as the mountains and views look very different coming from the opposite way.This drive takes 4-5 hours but you will stop many times to take in the beauty around you and possibly hike some of the trails, so if you can, take a full day or two to do it properly (especially you want to stop in Banff, Canmore and Lake Louise). The views are breathtaking and to be amongst glaciers that are so old and still around is incredible. All Canadians should do this drive at least once!"
We were pleasantly surprised how much we enjoyed our trip to the glacier. The ice explorer are really something and our driver Tori only 19yr was fantastic. Very informative and clearly enjoying her time working at the ice field. The ice field speaks for itself.Visit on your was from lake Louise to Jasper.Thank you team.
"I drove the Glacier Highway (93) from Lake Louse to Jasper and back while spring skiing in April. The drive took a little over 3 hours (including many quick stops for photos) and was well worth doing. The views along the entire highway were fantastic and awe-inspiring in both directions. I had been worried about driving that long a distance after a full day of skiing and I wouldn't want to travel the road after dark, but fortunately daylight continues until late in April and the continuous stream of spectacular views meant that I was never bored Since I was racing against the clock I didn't have time for side trips to Ice Field itself (or the many other sites along the way e.g. Sunwapta Falls, Athabasca Falls, Maligne Canyon), but I look forward to doing them in the future."
"This is something special to see. It can be quite slippery and the weather can change quickly. Wear shoes with grip, and wear layers. On a sunny day the picture ops are plentiful. A spectacular spot. The cafe menu is not vast and the food not brilliant, however this does not detract from a beautiful spot."
Visited the Ice Field excursion during peak season and it was very well organized. not much waiting around. Travelled with our two teenage sons and they loved it.
After visiting this Ice field in Sept I have thought about it several time. It's shocking how much the glacier has retreated in the last 100 years.
We drove Banff to Jasper in early April (too early for the Ice Bus to be working - but it should be in full swing now (we saw them being transported on the highway). We pulled into the roadside park area and marvelled at the glacier in the distance - would have loved the ice bus to be running to take the tour out on the ice - but think it would be best in summer when you can more clearly see the glacier (not snow everywhere).
This is really a unbelievable place to visit. It's directly located near the highway if you drive from Jasper to Banff. We start our trip early in the morning and was early there. So we start our breakfast in our Motor home and love it to look to the ice field. The bus shuttle is in my point of view to expensive and absolut over priced.
It is not every day you will get the opportunity to walk on a glacier! The only thing I did not like about this visit it was too short! I could've stayed over there way longer. But worth every cent anyway.
"Been there a few times and each time I am amazed at the experience. Ice thousands of years old and 200 meters thick is not something one would find anywhere. I suggest purchasing the tickets to go on the snowbus that takes you to the middle of the glacier where you can get out, walk around, and drink the meltwater (the water's really cold!). Or park at the base of the glacier and walk up to the the toe of it. Global warming has melted the glacier in the past decades and it has receded quite a bit. it is unsafe to go beyond the roped off areas and go on the ice yourself. You can fall into crevasses and serious injuries can result. Stay off the ice at the toe of the glacier and just enjoy it before it is gone. It is the only public easily-accessible glacier in the Rockies."
Even though the tourist ice field trip wasn't available due to it not being open yet we stopped off and were able to see the ice field with a change in the colours where the ice was a little bit of sun came out so it looked even more spectacular. Parking available.
Its definitely worth a stop but the views will definitely be better in the summer. Right now there is still too much snow so you cannot see the ice very much. Still worth a stop if you are passing by but will be better in the summer for sure.
We stopped at the Athabasca Glacier on a Brewster.s coach trip Banff to Jasper with Brewster's food & trip to glacier experience booked.. I felt we missed out on its splendor by the sheer rushed processing of us through the queues for restaurant and the transport to the glacier. Just too many of us tourists.My daughter experienced the glacier a few years earlier on a Trek America trip with just 8 in the van..They had snacks in the van and an escorted walk to the glacier with hired crampons & coats. That left real memories and wasn't diminished by any crush.However I would still recommend the Brewster's coach as it's an excellent way of seeing the Icefields Parkway without personal transport. Just realise its limitations.
The wind was cold and hard but the beauty of everything made you not care. Everything is closed right now but you can still pull over in the parking lot and walk around and enjoy the scenery. We will be going back in the summer.
"A snowy day, and all the facilities are closed at this time of year, but a good opportunity to stop en route from Jasper to Banff for some photographs at the toe of the glacier. Just off the main ice field parkway into the car park and a short trudge through thick snow to get some nice photographs."
"We have driven on this highway a few times but the wonderful sights and vistas of Rocky mountains never cease to amaze.Long sections of the highway are marked as ""Avalanche Country"" or prone to avalanche induced closure in late winter and spring. AS it happened on our last trip, we set out from Jasper to go to Lake Louis and return travelling both ways on highway 93, Icefields Parkway.The outward journey was great,Sights were beautiful and there was not much traffic. On the return trip, about an hours drive on the Parkway towards Jasper, we were stopped and told to turn around as the highway was closed due to an avalanche!We had to turn around and limp into Rocky Mountain house on last few drops of fuel. Lessons learned; don't step on Icefield Parkway unless you have a full tank of gas; AND, do not plan an essential journey on this road from late winter to late spring.Our adventure found us stranded in Rocky Mountain House hundreds of kilometers from our luggage and a paid-up hotel room. But still, a memorable trip."
"The Icefields are cold even on the warmest days, there is a fierce wind blowing down all the time. We took the tour snow cat on the ice fields and the glass floor walk. Make sure you use the bathroom before you start as there are no more until you get back. No emergency stops. The ice fields are shrinking very fast and are now a long way from the highway."
went out to ice fields with Mr Taxi--they are really nice to see----entire scenery in the area breathtaking
"THIS IS A REVIEW OF COLUMBIA ICEFIELD. PUT REVIEWS OF ATHABASCA GLACIER, THE ICE EXPLORER, THE ICEFIELD GLACIER DISCOVERY CENTER, and THE ICEFIELD PARKWAY UNDER THOSE HEADINGS, NOT THIS ONE.The Columbia Icefield is the biggest in the North American Rockies. It is part in Alberta to the east and British Columbia to the west, part in Jasper National Park to the north and Banff National Park to the south. It feeds hundreds of glaciers, lakes and waterfalls. It is massive and over a thousand feet thick in ice created over the milliennia. Attempting to walk, hike or cross it is prohibited, because there is no way you can be rescued. You can glimpse it on the peaks along the Icefields Parkway. The closest most of us can get to it is by taking the tour of the Athabasca Glacier on the Ice Explorer, at the Icefield Glacier Discovery Center on the Icefields Parkway, Highway 93."
"It was great but busy, so many people to actually enjoy yourself. The wait between the skywalk and bus to the ice fields was about 4 hours but when you get to the ice fields you have so many people that you can't take a decent photo. But in all it was a good experience the staff on the bus were great."
"My sister and I parked at the visitor's centre across the road and went in to look around. The centre was extremely crowded so we didn't spend much time there, just picked up a map and use the bathrooms which were clean despite the crowds. We then drove across the highway and did the hike to the base of the ice field. When we started out it seemed warm enough but we brought jackets anyway. It was a good thing too! The walk was very windy and the wind was bitter! I was glad for my good and the windbreak of the jacket. The hike was easy; undulating over pebbles and small rocks. There was a steep section to get up to the base but we took our time up and down so it wasn't too bad. It was pretty amazing to see the glacier. Had we had more time a tour may have been something we considered. We were glad to have done the hike."
"We stopped at the Columbia Ice field just to sight see and not to drive up on the glacier. My son and I ended up walking up the whole path to the roped off area. It was an awesome little hike. We did end up walking all the way to the glacier, crossing the ""melting water"" creek and spending a few moments on the glacier itself. It was a pretty cool father and son moment that I will never forget. There crevice warning signs everywhere so be careful. We didn't venture far. We even brought back some ice for his little brother, waiting with mom in the car."
"If you have travelled all the way through the Rockies then why would you not stop here. It's a geological feast. My children loved it. We did not do the ice bus tour as the queue was so long and we were happy to get up close, take some pics and eat.The cafe was pretty basic but had a good selection of sandwiches and fast food type stuff. Great place to warm up. And just sit and admire the view. It's one of those places that make you realise how insignificant you are, Mother Nature rules here."
"You need to book ahead for this activity, it is that popular. Busy OMG. Take warm and rain proof clothes with you and good sturdy non slip shoes. I went in sandshoes, not a good idea on slick ice. It was cold, wet and brilliant, so glad I got the chance to experience walking on a Glacier. it has pure Blue Ice seams, it is stunning. You get up there by these massive Ice buggies. It's Fun."
"This was my second trip to the glacier in the last 25 years. It was stunning to see how far it has receded and how soft the top ice has become. Last time we walked to the toe of the glacier which was maybe 100 feet from the parking area -- now it is a significantly farther walk. Last time we did not take the ice crawler, but this time we did. Pricey but well worth it for the experience. There are opportunities here for activities for people of all abilities. If you want to touch the ice it is more strenuous, but if you just want to take the crawler and just stay on it , you can enjoy the view from inside.These icefields are disappearing, the day may come soon when all we have left are these memories."
"Initially we were excited to go on the icefield as we had heard so much about it. However on arrival, we realized the massive amounts of people coming and leaving, and we were part of it! We were part of a human conveyor belt of tourists. Heavy machinery was moving melted slurry away to ensure safe vehicular traffic. But we could see our impact on the glacier, accelerating its melting. We felt pretty bad after that. The glacier feeds many great rivers in the region and is the drinking water source. We think it should be better protected and enjoyed in a more responsible manner. If you have a good camera and zoom lens, I think it might be a better way to ""get up close"" to it and enjoy the surrounding scenery."
"What a majestic display by mother nature. We just walked to the face of the main glacier, didn't partake in the commercial activities and it was still plenty to enjoy."
"You can drive to the base of the Athabasca Glacier and hike up the piles of stone and rock until you reach the toe of the Glacier. (To walk on the Glacier you need to be with an official tour group.) Bundle up. Even in June the altitude and winds made it mighty chilly, but all of us enjoyed the experience. (Bring your wide angle lens and polarized filter for best photos)"
"Just a beautiful place. It's free and just amazing. Plan for at least 45 minutes to get to all the vantage points if not longer.
The views are all stunning. I have yet to go and it's super busy. Stop in whenever you are passing"
I visited the icefields in Sep 2017 and I have to say it was one of my favourite parts of the holiday!! We did the Brewster tour and our guide was very funny and informative- highly recommend!
"Travelled in January, very little traffic on the road. The scenery here is amazing. Snow can be deep, although minus 12 when I travelled, of course sense is needed to wear the correct clothing, it wasn't as cold as it looked. Good waterproof boots are a must."
It's cold for sure but the ice fields are so cool. I feel dwarfed every time I come here. There is a nice little walk part way up the valley where you can get some outstanding pictures and great views of surrounding glaciers.
This was an absolutely amazing experience to drink ice water from the glacier that was flowing and crystal clear
"We managed to get on the last trip to the glacier for the day, so after the short bus trip and the ride onto the glacier itself aboard the 'monster wheeled' bus, we were the only group out there. Earlier in the day there are a number of buses on the glacier at the same time. On the glacier, it was just starting to get a little cool as the sun started to set behind the mountains. The commentary on the bus rides was very informative; our guide was a qualified geologist who clearly knew her subject. The glacier has receded significantly over the last century and continues to do so, so you'd best see it in the next 20 or so years. It's not the cheapest experience, but worth doing all the same. The skywalk is also good fun although there are possibly more spectacular glass bottomed walkways elsewhere. However, as the two experiences can be combined on the one ticket, it's very worthwhile."
"A place you must go on your way to Jasper/Lake Louise.
This is the place if you want to walk across an icefield and have beautiful views.
Also the sky walk is really beautiful, a nice view and a great building ""over the sky"""
We toured this area from jasper to Banff on pedal bikes. The icefield area was windy and cool even in September however was a beautiful place seems like another planet
"Driving on the Columbia Ice Field Highway we experienced rain. Even though it was beautiful, it would have been better if would have been a sunny day. The lakes along the road were gorgeous, but we did not get to hike due to the weather. You can see my trip and pictures at winenchocolate dot com."
Depending on which way your coming (east or west) this is the first or last thing you'll see in Jasper National Park It starts and ends with beauty as the park offers another surpriseNo matter which way you look on your visit in Jasper you'll always be graced by beauty such as this
"We went for a guided hike on the glacier and found it to be thoroughly enjoyable, educational and awe inspiring. I'm so glad we made the effort and didn't just sit on a bus to see it."
"This is the most amazing experience! The visitors centre is a little hackneyed (ie exit through the gift shop!), but otherwise this is amazing. A bus takes you to the moonbus type machine that can drive on the glacier, and then it's about a 10 minute drive on this huge machine on to the glacier. When you get off, it's a surreal experience. It's not at all like walking any snow or ice I've experienced before. Do it! Bring an empty water bottle and collect some water."
"A wonderful drive from Jasper to Lake Louise- very dramatic views. The road was covered in thick ice when we did it, but OK to drive on with care, winter tyres and 4WD."
one should see this so that one day you can tell your grandchildren what a glacier looked like and do go there and do drink the water atop the ice field lots of Asians aboard with many many cameras - ignore and enjoy the ride aboard the big wheeled machine
"This is the major source of fresh water runoff for the Province of Alberta. We were here in June after the main melt was over, so it was rather barren, but I have been here in early spring when the snow was near the highway which leaves you feeling that you are on the glacier itself. I have also taken the snow machine tour onto the glacier itself, many years ago. It was interesting but pricey even back then. On a warm day (which is rarely very warm at all) one can walk the trail up to the base of the glacier. This last time we went there, it was cool and windy, bordering on bitterly cold."
Took the Snowmobile bus onto the glacier for the tour and then on to the Sky Walk. We enjoyed the experience of the tour and to be able to walk on the glacier. The SkyWalk was very disappointing.
"We didn't take a tour, but simply walked up to the glacier. Although the idea of being on a glacier or seeing a glacier is exciting, in actuality it wasn't that interesting. It just looks a big mountain of dirty snow. And the hike up from the parking lot is elevated, so it's not the easiest. In my opinion, you get a fair view from the highway, but I didn't take the tour so I can't comment on that. By the way, isn't there significant erosion being done by taking that large vehicle (with the tour) on the glacier? It just doesn't sit well with me. Also, the tour facility is not worth it and I heard from a friend the food inside was horrible."
Very very cold but worth the drive. Too bad the hotel is closed during winter otherwise it would be better. Largest Ice field in the world.
"Sells itself really - you can catch a buggy out to the glacier and get down and walk, drink water directly from the glacier. There's even a pair of red chairs. It's expensive but why wouldn't you want to spend the money. Early and late you do better with the crowds."
"We booked the Ice Cubed Afternoon walk with Ice Walk. They leave from a small parking lot near the bottom of the Ice Field. They have all the equipment you need and didn't bring such as coats, gloves, walking boots and snow irons to put under your walking boots. The walk is in total about 5km (from start to start again) and is magical. The guide was just perfect. One of the best experiences in Canada."
"For South Africans, who do not know Snow, Glaciers and the like, this was a fairly expensive experience, but worth EVERY CENT!!! We were in awe of the magnificence and pure magnitude of God's Creations!"
"what a beautiful day! one of the most perfect days of my life. have bin in many places around the world, the IFP fit's in my top three i guess. however, it is very difficult to rate places and scenery. going back this winter, one day is preserved for the IFP. that for sure!"
Really enjoyed this trip that took us from Fairmont Jasper Park Lodge to Banff The Columbia Ice Fields is a must do Our driver was fun and knowledgeable and offered wee stops along the way and a great photo stop at massive ice falls where climbers were readying themselves for a day long ice climb Really worthwhile
did the columbia bus tour on the ice field. superb out of this world experience.. best part was drinking the glacial water.. never tasted water this delicious and fresh !! 100% recommend this to everyone
"Do this adventure at least once, it's worth it. We have been on this highway (Jasper to Banff) trip numerous times before and hadn't done the Ice Field Adventure until the spring of 2016."
Worth stopping here. We didn't do the bus tour onto the ice field. Probably would have been worth it. We parked down at the bottom and it was a quick walk to view the ice field.
"We spent 4 days (South and Northwards) driving the Columbia/Jasper Highway - One in a lifetime - Very Good.
July can be busy and it is the peak of the season, but didn't find it over-crowded just busy busy...."
Of all the glaciers to observe the Columbia Ice Field is at the top of the list. Do not pass this up. This is a hands on trip where your transported across the glacier on massive ATVs and get to spend some time walking across the glacier. Photographers are in heaven. All I can say is wow.
"You can experience much about the Athabasca Glacier without taking the expensive buses onto the glacier. You can park on the glacier side of the road and walk up to near the bottom of the glacier. Make sure you wrap up well before getting out of the car as there is a fierce wind that seems to blow most of the way up to the glacier. Once at the glacier bottom it is much calmer. Also make sure you wear adequate footwear as part of the climb is steep and covered with stones / shale that can slip. I saw some ladies picking there way on the downward path wearing only flip-flops!!! Silly. Remember the altitude is nearly 2000m and so some people may be short of breath. You can't get super near the end of the glacier as there are potential crevass hazards, so its worth obeying the signs. If you have a good camera with a good zoom lens, you can see a lot of the overhanging glaciers and ice fields, which is fun. We only spent about 30 mins looking at the glacier as it was cold. Another tip - make sure you do not need to visit the loo as they only have a cabin with the hole-in-the - ground style on the glacier side of the road. There are full facilities on the other side. Definitely a must-do thing, but be well prepared."
"Seeing the Columbia Ice Field was like being in a different world. It is simply breathtaking and unlike anything I've seen before. The water running through that hasn't frozen yet makes it even more beautiful.
A must see."
"It's Just , Just wonderful. True Nature there.
I collected the water & drank.
It's Amrit.., Necktar of Life.., Life time experiences."
This is a great spot to stop however check the weather forecast - the day we were there it was cold and there was a very cold breeze coming off the ice so pack warm clothes.
"Driving past the ice field you are brought to life with the scale, the immense impression of life in the raw, history sliding down the mountains.."
"I visited in September. The place was, as one might expect, heaving but there was plenty of space for all and the visitor centre is well able to cope with the sheer volume of visitors. The restaurant was very busy but the throughput moved along quickly. Not gourmet food, of course, but a perfectly adequate selection to satisfy most tastes and keep the wolf from the door.The car park was particularly busy with coaches, so care needs to be taken when moving around, but the viewing platform area is plenty large enough to cope with those who just want to go and look at the wonderful glacier and surrounding mountains. The drive there is regarded as one of the most beautiful in the world, and justifiably so. I had a wonderful time there and cannot wait to revisit."
"This is the beginning of the Columbia river and what a sight. It also has a triple continental divide by it, and there are only a handful on Earth of these. Enjoyed the
time exploring, sight seeing and taking pictures, what a magnificent sight."
Stopped there on our way to Jasper. Not much to see. What was interesting was how much the ice has receded over the years.
"The ice fields are incredible: cold and misty. A beautiful ""fog"" rose from the glaciers as we neared the fields. Very powerful."
Columbia Icefield is a must do if you are holidaying in the Canadian Rockies. We have done the Glacier Walk in June 2015 and this time around we have done the Toe of the Glacier short hike/walk. It is a must do either way.
"This is a popular stop, lots of people walking around, and signs warning you that your car is going to get broken into. It also can't be good for the environment to have that many people just tromping around all over the area. People also don't respect the signs warning you not to walk closer to the glacier."
When travelling the parkway you must stop at the Icefields. Worth a trip to the glacier as well as the tourist hall. I was able to camp at the Icefields overnight in the parking lot and do some hiking around. Love this spot!
"This place should be on the ""Must see"" list if you penetrate the Canadian Rockies. The Sky walk is most unique. But the Glacier Fields and special vehicles to take you the the Ice Fields are unique and may be ""one in a life"" experience . Just wear appropriate clothing because of the wind and possible low temps."
It is just unbelievable to see glacial ice! Amazing experience!!! I did not get the bus to go up the fields. You can park you car in the bottom and go up the hill walking. Be sure to wear warm clothes. It is very interesting (and sad) to read the history of the field and see were the ice was in the past and where it is now.
We did the ice fields parkway as part of a Rockies road trip. The section between Lake Louise and Jasper was stunning. Make sure you take drinks and something to eat as we did not see anywhere along the route to stop.
Make this a must to attraction. The experience is unique and a lot of fun. You can combine this ticket with the Skywalk just down the road. A great experience
Such an awesome view of a natural ice field. The mountains were so beautiful and majestic. The blue sky and white snow just sparkled.
"With over 90% of the world's glacier's retreating from the face of our earth, it would be worth it to visit the Columbia Icefield. Alas, this glacier will too be gone in the foreseeable future. It was a fun experience going in the glacier mobile. The organization of getting people to the glacier was extremely well done. Be prepared for lots of tourists but lines move quickly once one is placed in a group. The tour that we were on also took us nearby to a skywalk that is similar to the one that overlooks the Grand Canyon. Fabulous engineering feat!"
Just out of nowhere a blanket of snow covered everything when we saw it the feeling was you were inside a movie and that the view was painted in front of you
We drove to the area. We have visited this location at least 4 times and everytime we noticed the glacier has retreated further since our last visit. the who;e experience is great. I would strongly recommend it to anyone visiting the Jasper area to visit the Columbia Ice Field; an experience you will remember for the rest of your life.
"The area between Lake Louise and Jasper is just beautiful. Even if you only have one weekend in the area you should drive to Jasper and right back. It's well worth it and there are tons of stops on the way to check out waterfalls, the Athabasca glacier, and stop and admire bighorn sheep and elk. This drive was unbelievable."
"on our way down from lake louise to banff. great place to stop and take a look, at the glacier from the visitors centre. we didn't go to the glacier as we feel we had seen less crowded ones in Alaska. If you have never seen a glacier it would be worth a closer look, it somehow didn't seem right with the hundreds of buses driving up to it. We did do the skywalk. I am terrified of heights and managed it as it was so crowded it didn't feel like you were suspended above anything! you have to time your move to get one of those lying in thin air shots. its colder at the bottom of the carpark than out on the skywalk so don't worry taking extra stuff if you are comfortable before getting on bus.The bus up was a short ride and well organised. out bus driver slowed right down to show us the sheep on the side of the mountain.not sure i would bother doing it again if i had the chance."
You can get near the glacier by the lower car park and walking to its edge...if you want to pay big money to stand on it then go on the trip....me I can think of better ways than lashing out £100. but the glacier should be seen before it disappears.
"This is a once in a life time experience! Where else can you take a bus up onto a glacier, get out of the bus and walk around on 100's of feet of ice and snow. Very enjoyable and this will not last much longer, maybe 20 years. So chill out and have fun."
Breath taking scenery and one of the best places along the route to Lake Louise. Worth a visit and stopping here made the trip very worthwhile. The majestic beauty was totally awesome.
Great afternoon! A must see when in the area.the trek up the road is an experience in it self. Once on the ice field walk with caution and dress warm
This is one of the most notable attraction in the area of Jasper...Located 1 hour south of the town.
"Enjoyable trip and fantastic views but the sheer amount of people meant that you were constantly trying to avoid being in someone else's photo.
Maybe we chose the wrong month our should have gone first thing in the morning."
"The attractions at the ice field have changed a lot. When we came here many years ago, there were glaciers. Now there are huge gift shops, restaurants, a movie theater, a giant parking lot and crowds of visitors. People are wandering around waiting for their tour or movie to be announced. We spent a little time and headed for a quieter area to enjoy the views of the mountains and glaciers."
"We walked up to the icefields and while it was a little challenging for one of us who had to use nordic walking poles and one with a heart condition, we were still able to climb to the icefield. An incredible experience."
"Of all the various places we went to while in Alberta on our recent trip to Canada, this has to be up there as one of the top and most memorable excursions.We went up on to the glacier on one of the many specially designed buses that run between the glacier and the nearby visitor centre. Our tour guide, who was a geology student at the University of Alberta in Edmonton, certainly knew her stuff and provided just the right mix of a sense of humour and knowledge to make what might otherwise have been, but for the scenery, a simple, if bumpy at times, 'bus trip', into something much more fun and interesting.On the glacier itself (do wrap up - it's cold up there!), we were limited to a relatively small area for the immense number of people up there at any one time. The environmentalist in me was pleased at this but this was at odds with the tourist factor! However, it served its purpose and with a couple of well placed Canadian flags together with super-ancient ice up close, there were some excellent photo opportunities. We also filled our drinking bottle up with glacial water, which is one of the things to do up there. I am however unsure whether to recommend this as lovely (and cold!) as the water was, my gut appeared to disagree with it several hours later. Whether it was the water or something else I can't be sure - but I'd be wary doing it again!This is something I think you'd probably do just the once rather than repeatedly - but it is absolutely worth doing. It is without any shadow of a doubt, super touristy and there is no question that the company behind this operation squeeze every possible dollar our of the thousands of visitors. Personally I'd prefer fewer buses going up onto the glacier at any one time but this is never going to happen when there is so much money to be made.I strongly suggest a visit during either the Spring or Autumn 'shoulder' seasons. July, although sunny, was surely the peak period for tourists. Lovers of animals and nature risk being disappointed if in the general area to see wildlife. This is as true of this location as others such as Banff and Jasper at this time of year. The sheer volume of people these days pushes the wildlife to other locations. Even the national parks seemed very liberally populated with anything other than human beings.Recommended and slickly operated - just *massively* touristy. As others have said - go as early as possible."
"A bit touristy, no doubt... but I still don't regret spending the extra $$ for this. Well, how often do you get to stand on a thousands year old glacier, touching the ice and collecting (and drinking, like some people do) the water there? Not very often, right? So if you happen to be in the neighborhood and have never done so before, it is worth trying once at least.And the coach that took us there was cool too.Like some other reviewers, I was also left with a little feeling of sadness knowing that the glaciers will be gone in 100 years.Nothing lasts forever, so enjoy it while it lasts."
"very good, went out to the ice field, wear good shoes or boots, wet under foot. You get to walk on the glaicier beware of holes, a really good experience"
"We travelled to this Icefield as part of a tour. It was a must see - it was unreal walking on the glacier, we were only on there for about 15 to 20 minutes, apparently thats the maximum time, I would imagine it was because there were so many people coming and going all the time. We drank some Canadian Maple Whiskey and toasted the scenery, as you do !"
"We went here because my son is doing Nat 5 Geography and his topic was glaciation - it was fantastic, the crew on board the bus were so informative but be aware the ice is really slippy. Areas are cordoned off for a reason."
"Think the title says it all... Go if you don't ski or has never seen or touch solid chunks of ice... It's an ice field, so you only see and touch ice.... I don't really recommend it. It really looks much better in photos."
We stopped off on Route to Jasper. It is totally amazing. You are taken up in a custom snow vehicle and allowed out onto the Glacier take photos etc. If you take a bottle you can fill it and taste the water (if you like Coors Lite that is)!
Avoid lunch time when dozens of coaches arrive and make it most congested and unpleasant. There's a lot of steps to reach the restaurant.
"This is such an impressive, interesting area! We downloaded the Gypsy Guide on our phone and had a ton of information available as we drove along. We did not stop at the info center itself because it was absolutely overcrowded, but stopped in the parking lot opposite it (where one can also find toilets) and explored from here. There are a ton of stops along the way, so please make sure you bring plenty of time to take it all in."
We were taken on the Bruester tour bus to the ice fields. Then we boarded a special bus to take us out on the glacier. The staff were very informative and the view gorgeous.
"I have often driven past the icefields and have watched the glacier shrink over the last 40 years. I had never stopped at the resort. Recently I was driving the highway and found it closed by an accident. I had to hang around the resort, waiting for the highway to open. There were crowds and crowds and crowds of bus-tour folk. I had occasion to visit the souvenir shop - amazing masses of schlock. I wondered, is this the most tasteless collection of junk for sale in Canada or is it outstripped by Niagara Falls, ON? Oh well... obviously there are enough tourists who want such stuff.Hint for those stuck at this place, there is no wi fi or cellphone connection, but if you go to the centre of the building there is a wi fi spot run by Parks Canada from which you can comunicate with the outside world. Thanks Parks Canada."
"The ice fields are amazing! Being a native Floridian, I thoroughly enjoyed this. The ice and cold were a welcomed change."
On the day of our visit we had to suffice with the skywalk and no glacial ride due to snowfall the previous night and the machines being stuck and unable to clear the way. It was dissapointing but so close to the end of the season we knew that it would be a risk. The view of the glacia was beautiful and the plus side was mountains blanketed in snow. The food at the ice fields restaurant though was terrible so recommend you bring some snacks along for the journey.
"Driving up to the icefields from Jasper is one of the most stunning experiences ever. It feels like you have arrived to a treasure trove at the top of the world.But the view from the parking lot or observation deck of the Icefields Center is as good as it gets. I went on the glacier tour thinking it would be the experience of a lifetime but I didn't enjoy it much... You just get shuttled around in different buses and then get out in a tiny confined part of the glacier for 15 minutes. The guides help you learn more about the behavior of glaciers, how people have to adapt from year to year to changing snow and ice conditions, and what life is like up there for them, but it's nothing earth-shattering though they do a good job of being humorous. By the time it was over I was ready (anxious) to continue on to Banff. I suppose the glacier hiking tours might be more engaging and fun.The Icefields Center itself was just a tourist trap. A place to buy tickets for Brewster Travel tours and activities; a terrible restaurant, cafeteria, and gift shop; and absolutely no interpretive exhibits or educational videos or anything."
What an experience...!!! Buses built to drive on ice and take you for an unforgettable experience up the glacier to a spot you get out and walk on one.. No flights involved like so many other places in the world.. Not to be missed when visiting The Rockies.
This is another fantastic free attraction right along the beaten path of Jasper National Park that illustrates the magnificent power and beauty of glaciers and their impact on earth's geography. Simply awe inspiring!
"Thank God, I was dressed with a winter jacket and good walking boots as it was a little windy at the top but well worth the trip. The Big Machine that we went up with seemed to be larger than the others and the climb up and coming back down was steep, steep, steep. The driver was very friendly and talkative and knew his facts and was good at taking pictures. I met a couple from Quebec and we had some very good conversations. The weather was great as it was sunny for most of the time which meant very good picture taking weather. Once I download them to my computer, then I will provide some for the review."
"The Columbia Glacier is on the Icefields Parkway, a drive between Banff and Jasper. The scenery is truly amazing. Its well worth stopping at the glacier and going for a walk on the ice. It does get quite crowded but is well organised with each group having an allotted time."
"I thought the Columbia Ice Field, being a part of the National Parks, would be accessible to the public. But no. To achieve a close experience you have to pay money to a Private Tour group. I get the notion that not everyone is responsible so guided tours are a good option but what happened to Park Rangers??? The glacier, is receding (as, unfortunately are most). It would have been good while walking towards the viewing areas to see more history signs. (This is where the glacier was in 1920 etc.) The building that provides geological and historical and environmental information is very nice."
"It would be hard not to stop if passing anyway but I would encourage anyone visiting either Jasper or Bamff to make the round trip to the Columbia ice fields. The scenery in the Rockies national parks is so spectacular from the road that the hidden interiors of the ranges: the glaciated, barren ridges and razor peaks obscured behind the lush forests and eye catching lower rocky peaks. If you are visiting the mountains by car (and good for you, it's a great way to see the country), the drive up to the ice fields is really the only chance to see this high-altitude landscape. The terrifying pace this glacier is retreating is another reason to see this for yourself. So impressive still in scale is the remaining portion that it is hard to imagine the glacier 100 years ago pouring out of this valley and branching out north and south down the great central spine of the Rockies. The climate here is changing, and at a pace and scale that you will see firsthand at few other places on earth."
"Was fantastic place to visit. Part of our Icefields parkway trip. Beautiful scenery and photograph options. Very interesting and amazing experience to be able to go and walk about on the glacier. We went up on to it by the ice explorer, which was a great adventure and experience. My husband enjoyed learning about the vehicle we went up on."
"This is amazing as you can walk on the glacier...a first for us. We decided to do the 3 hour hike...used the company that organizes that...watch the weather and pick your date wisely. They provide what you need...the most important being the crampons in order to walk on the glacier. They are quite safety oriented...but it is not scary, you just need to pay attention and don't go close to the end of a mill hole."
"We didn't quite know what to expect, and hadn't done our research, but this place is sensationally amazing! For the mechanically minded, the vehicles are fascinating themselves, let alone the glaciers, and the beauty and power of the ice. It's hard to describe; that feeling of being in a place of such power! To consider the weight of ice, the strength, and the absolute pure beauty. As a believer, I could feel the Presence!!"
This is one place you really should not miss great experience. The visitor centre is a great as you have a time slot to go to the Glacier. The bus ride to the Glacier is part of the experience the driver tells you all the facts about the glacier as he drives you out to were you can stand on the glacier it's self. Great time.
Just did a Brewster coach tour from Banff to Jasper and one of our stops was the Columbia ice field . We had bought this trip in Glasgow via our travel agent and were unaware that it would be so different and fabulous. How many of your pals have set foot on a glacier? Wonderful weather helped make this afternoon really special and if you are doing this you will absolutely love and remember the experience.
"The Columbia Ice Field was a must on our trip to the Canadian Rockies. Our driver/guide, SUPER KYLE, was the best. Very interesting and fun! He gave us lots of information about the Athabaska glacier and the Ice Field as well as about the Terra Bus he was driving. We really appreciated the experience of walking on hundreds of meters deep of ice. Stunning! Make sure you wear good shoes or boots and stay within the safe, limited area."
"Only open in summer, and often queues so suggest booking in advance - but it is a marvellous sight, and going out on the bus / ice traveller is very worthwhile, to see the other glaciers"
We visited the Columbia Ice Field while on a tour of the Canadian Rockies. An ice truck took a group onto the ice and we were able to walk around on it. We did not stay too long on it but it was something unusual and we were glad we had the experience.Th
"This is a heavily visited attraction, so be prepared for crowds, and a quick trip on and off the glacier. I guess we expected a nice excursion across a vast expanse of glacier. Instead, there were lots of people in a limited area. The ice is a bit dirty, and stirred up. Not the pristine experience we were looking for."
"Long wait and expense for a short, unexciting venture onto the glacier. Trying to get food was not worth the effort or the wait."
"I've been to Alaska on a cruise to see glaciers, but walking on one is even more exciting. You really don't realize the sheer mass of ice until you see, multiple buses parked in a snow lot and they look like dots. Our driver was very informative and funny. Even the snow cat bus ride was fun."
"This is definitely worth doing. By the time you get to the actual glacier you don't get much time there, think we had half hour but 20 mins is enough. Cool to see up close but there's only a small section you can walk on. I've can be pretty slippery so wear appropriate shoes. Andrew was our driver who was good entertainment & a knowledgable guide."
The Columbia Icefield is the largest ice field in the Rocky Mountains of North America and Athabasca Glacier is one of the six principal glaciers of the Columbia Icefield. It is visible from Icefields parkway and is so majestic. In August we had the opportunity to enjoy and explore this natural wonder. This is a must visit place before it recedes and becomes unsafe to walk on the glacier.Happy Travelling!
"Just be aware that you can walk up on the rocks but you can't get on teh ice unless you book a specific tour package so either the ice bus (from the main centre) or the ice walk tour (from the independant guide at the base car park). We didn't know about the independant guy until we got there and the last tour of the day, and in fact season, was full so we missed. We couldn't book on any other tours as about 30 coaches of Chinese tourists were swarming about.You also have to book your Skywalk tour from the main visitor centre as the shuttle bus runs from here to the nearby Skywalk. Best do all your booking online as the queues here were ridiculous so we didn't bother."
"My husband and I took our 2 year old and it was a great time. The only downfall was that the website does not inform you of the wait times as well if you are an AMA customer you need to know that you will not receive the discount between 11-3...this would have been nice to know before hand. The snow cat if very exciting and the skywalk is very memorable and even if you don't enjoy heights, it's worth being a little scared for"
"We stopped here twice during our 2 week road trip through the Canadian Rockies, once cloudy, and once with clear sunny skies. We were pleased with both. While we visited the Discovery Center both times, we only used it to eat and find overnight accommodations. Mostly we spent our time hiking to the glacier and taking in the vistas. Three of us made the hike all the way to the glacier, one of us had to give up 2/3 way because of the altitude. Not a lot of oxygen up there at 7,000+ ft. I'd rank this a MUUST SEE especially since you'll be on the parkway anyway. Enjoy!"
The upside was the experience of seeing and standing on a glacier and being able to access it by a specialized vehicle. The commentary en-route was extremely interesting. The downside is that the glacier is retreating at an alarming rate.
"If you have never been on a glacier, or seen one up close, and are not particularly adventuresome, this might be worth the drive and the price ($85 per adult/$43 per child over 6). A minimum drive of two hours from anywhere, the ice fields are fairly close to the main road. Perhaps having had the experience of being on another glacier gave us a jaded view of what we saw here, but this is more of a drive-by experience with about thousand other folks who just happen to be traveling on a packaged bus tour. The first stop is the ticket window in an overcrowded lodge a couple of kilometers to the east. After that, plan on waiting upwards to an hour or two until you are loaded on a regular bus for the ride over to the ice field where you will then transfer to an ""Ice Bus"" that will slowly take you out onto the glacier before depositing you on the ice for a while. Getting there, waiting and visiting the glacier for about half an hour will consume an entire day. The main lodge provides a mediocre selection of extremely overpriced food while you wait for your tour to begin. You can also purchase an additional ticket to visit the Glacier Skywalk that is a few kilometers up the highway and requires another bus ride to get to (cars are not allowed), and since this glass skywalk venue is not over the ice, the term ""glacier"" seems a bit misleading at best and at $32 per adult it seems grossly over-priced. Too touristy for us, but draw your own conclusions. We feel that there are far better options for using your time when visiting Jasper National Park."
Plan on spending some time here. When you purchase your tickets it includes two attractions and it is rather expensive.You are assigned a time and we had a 2 hour wait between the attractions. Not sure if this is the norm. Too much waiting around so check the schedule before purchasing tickets. The glacier was interesting but it was windy and cold the day of our visit so dress warm. Walking on a glacier....a bit overrated.
"The Columbia Ice Centre - Felt like I was in some international airport. This place is like down town Toronto. The high polish, glitz and business atmosphere does not fit the values or character of our national parks. We had to look for any Parks Canada presence and when we found it down stars it was closed behind gates as it was after 4:00pm."
"We rode the Ice Explorer onto the glacier as part of a Sun Dog Tour. Because we were on a tour our spots were reserved on the explorer so there was no waiting. It was quite the experience to ride over the moraines in the explorer and then walk on the glacier for 15 minutes. Take shoes with good grips and walk carefully - it's slippery up there. The views are phenomenal. The ride in the explorer was amazing - taking a hill with an almost straight up and down incline seemed impossible and was, honestly kinda scary, but the explorer handled it with ease.The bus driver that took us to the explorer and the driver of the explorer were very friendly, humorous and very informative. They explain about the glacier and point out the 300 year old stunted trees around the glacier and a 7,000 year old forest next to the glacier.The chalet itself was very crowded when we got there for our 11:30am reservation - mostly with foreign bus tours coming in who would actually physically push people out of the way (I was very rudely shoved from behind very hard at one point - that was the only part I did not enjoy). It would be best to reserve your seats for the explorer and to also try to avoid the rush of those bus tours, if at all possible.There are washrooms in the chalet. They did have a cafeteria on the 2nd floor and a somewhat pricey gift shop on the main floor but we chose not to stay - rather our tour guide agreed to take us to the non-crowded restaurant in the Sunwapta Falls Resort and their gift shop instead (we were heading back to Jasper anyway and we noticed they were having their seasonal closing out sale at their gift shop on our way to the glacier - so it was a win/win).Over the years, the glacier has melted quite a lot since I saw it 40+ years ago. This is definitely a must do before the glacier becomes too unstable or it disappears completely. Take an empty water bottle with you, just in case there is a stream of melt water so you can taste the freshest and cleanest water in the world (who the drivers will tell you it is their fountain of youth lol)"
It is a highly organised tour to the glacier. We went with Brewsters and it went very smoothly however there were crowds of people and it seemed a very touristy thing to do. But having said that it was fun in the big buses and walking on the glacier.
"It's very awesome experience being in the middle of the ice, Big Bang bus ?? and knowledgeable staff.
Must visit place if u in Banff or jasper, AB
After that u can walk too from centre from the bottom part of glacier."
The trip onto the icefield is amazing. The guide and the vehicle you ride on make the trip possible and exciting. Walking on the ice field is exciting and fun and well worth doing. However the restaurant staff were not the best - in fact quite rude. The food was ok and included in the trip we were on but the staff really need to show less stress and more politeness when dealing with customers.
"We were taken here as part of a tour, and while the bus ride with commentary to the glacier itself is interesting, it is fascinating to actually walk on one. I was concerned it might be slippery, but just took care and wore boots with a good sole, however one senior gentleman had a bad fall on the ice. I don't know if the buses career to those in wheelchairs or on walkers, but it would be extremely challenging I would think. I do worry what all the constant bus activity is doing to the glacier. It can't be good. The major downside is that our only lunch option was to eat at the Icefields tourist centre, which was a zoo. Simply too many people to make it a comfortable experience. If you suffer from crowd anxiety or claustrophobic, which I don't, I'd give this a miss. The food was awful and expensive, but this is the middle of nowhere. I'd recommend you pack a lunch and use the toilets only."
"The building houses a nice facility with theatre, gift shop, cafeteria, and sundeck outdoors where you can pull up comfy chairs and just drink in the view. We arrived late in the day, about 5:30 pm, and everything was closed. We did enjoy sitting outside on the deck with the fabulous view of the glaciers. We could see the Snocoach up on the Athabasca glacier. We then drove across the road for a closer viewpoint of the glacier; the road was marked with dates which indicated where the glacier used to be, which was quite interesting and sad at the same time."
It's an interesting trip out onto the glacier but I'm not convinced it doesn't increase the rate of loss to the ice cap. However we were told it doesn't have an effect.Chose a sunny day if you can and off season as I suspect it can be very crowded.
"Its a shame as its a unique experiece but really over priced, and we didnt get to get out water bottle filled up, no one directed you and there was a fence all the way round so didn't want to just help otherselves. Its a shame as drink water from the glacier was the main reason we booked on but the whole thing is well overpriced for the amount of people in each coach to each trip. they r making a fortune. Shame as the staff are really trying to make it a good experience."
Didn't go to the 'Center' as it was jammed with tour buses (think I counted 30).. across street tho was parking lot and we did a lovely short hike called Forefield to toe of glacier. We also passed on Brewster Ice Walk as it seemed way to hokey for us.
Even though the main building is insanely busy we purchased our tickets on the way to Jasper and took the tour on the way back down so didn't have long to wait. Bus ride was short and just fine. Our driver on the Ice Bus was fantastic and made the trip to the ice field lots of fun.The ice field itself was quite something to see. Drinking water directly from the run-off was great. So cold and super refreshing.Sad to see the ice field retreating and is a great way to educate on the climate.
Walking on this glacier is the ultimate thrill but even viewing it is awesome. It is vast and easily visible from the wide highways around the Canadian Rockies.
We really enjoyed the ice field. The ice explorer was fun to ride in and our driver Stephan was quite funny. The glacier was interesting to see up close.
It is sheer brilliance from a distance but also great to set foot on the icefield itself.The drive to the icefield on the big tyre buses is an experience and the witty comments by the drivers is very enjoyable.
"skip the Discovery Center and drive across the highway to the parking lot to begin your hike to the toe of the glacier. Other options are to buy tickets to be driven to the glacier, to walk on the glacier, etc.Nice little hike to the toe of the glacier. Not too strenuous, but a slight elevation change, so not so easy with a stroller. Of course, you can’t get on to the glacier due to the danger, but that’s true of almost all glaciers. Nice place to get a close up photo of a glacier.The most useful information gleaned at the Discovery Center (actually, the information is in the parking lot) is about the changes in the size of the icefield. Rather ironic to see all those cars in the parking lot, thinking about climate change and retreat of the glacier ......hmmmmmm ........"
"The huge vehicles which take you up onto the glacier are an experience in themselves. Great to walk on an actual glacier, though good footwear is required and it's then still a bit hairy. As a geographer it was fascinating to see the moraines, but sad that the glacier has retreated at a quite alarming rate, it used to reach to the carpark and beyond."
"Firstly, there appears to be some confusion, about what reviews under this subject heading relate to. I understand this to relate to the Columbia Icefield and not experiences relating to trips on to the Columbia Glacier by ""Ice Explorer"" vehicle, which are probably more appropriately reviewed under ""Columbia Icefield Glacier Adventure"". The Ice Field glacier is easily seen from the Icefields Parkway road and information is available in the Discovery Centre on the opposite side of the road. The area and depth of the snow/ice are quite staggering to those of us that live in more temperate regions. Disappointing is the fact that changes in climate are resulting in the size of the glacier reducing gradually each year. Is this inflicted by the human race? Whilst glaciers can be seen elsewhere the extent of this Ice Field is truly impressive. A major feature of the Icelands Parkway"
"A great experience, taking transport onto the glacier and having an opportunity to walk on the glacier and top-up my water bottle. The staff were amusing and informative in how they delivered the information regarding the formation and development of the glacier over the ages."
"to touristic and for Europeans who can see Glaciers in Austria or in the Alps no need to spend the fee to vosit the Glaciers, the walway is nice 40$ ik reasonable"
Great trip and it is great fun to drive onto and walk on the Icefield. Great experience on the ice explorer. Wouldn't have missed it for the world
its very busy like disneyland but its something different to do on your trip the sky rail which is part of the ticket price is not worth the que wouldent advise comming in the height of the summer so so busy
"There are not many places you can go onto a glacier, this is one of them and it is worth a visit. There are these big icebuses that take you up there and it is incredible to see......considering where they were and how quickly they are receding. The visitors centre has a good collection of information and had lots of pictoral displays. Definitely worth a visit"
"Why mixed emotions? This is obviously one of the world's great attractions but having seen how much the glacier has retreated in the last century and with all the research concerning global warming I felt uncomfortable being transported out to the glacier on vehicles that were belching out fumes as well as huge numbers of tourists (myself included) to walk for a few moments on this ever shrinking attraction. It is an enormous commercial venture and I felt that I was part of the exploitation. Really not very eco..... however, that said, it is a truly amazing sight."
"We loved the adventure of driving up to the Ice Field Glacier and having the opportunity to walk on the glacier and take memorable photos. Despite our multi-layered dressing, it was very cold on the glacier in mid-September with wind chills of minus 4 degrees! Yet, I am so thrilled I had the opportunity to take this adventure."
"The Ice Field was a must stop for our group of 9 seniors from the US, who gather each year to tour national parks. The walk up to the Athabasca Glacier was especially worth the stop. Interpretive signs indicate how much the glacier has receded over the decades due to climate change. On our way up to the Athabasca Glacier we met a woman from Minnesota, who was carrying a photo from 1973 of where the snout of the glacier was at that time--all the way to the present parking lot. A visit here will expand your consciousness about the age of our planet and our collective responsibility to steward it wisely."
"As part of a tour, out rime slot was booked ahead, reading reviews I see that people are only disspointed if they had to queue as they had not booked.We were advised to have non slip shoes on and went over to get on these huge vehicles that take you on the Glacier.Learning that dirty glaciers melt quicker, you see why the trucks go through water to ensure that their wheels are clean.We spent about 30+ minutes on the Glacier, drank the water flowing and had basically a good time.The ticket office/tourist office/shop/restaurant was well kitted out, we had a buffet meal and spent a few pennies on T Shirts and Jackets."
"Another bucket list item checked off. It was so very exciting to walk on the ice, drink a cold refreshing sip of the glacier water. It was very windy the day we were up there and felt like we could fly. I still smile when thinking about the experience. Sit in the ""red chairs"" and take a moment to reflect upon the creation."
"We stopped at the Ice Field with the intention of doing the Ice Field your. As we looked at the queues and across at a small Ice Field, we agreed that is was a waste of time and money. Having visiting Ice Fields in Norway and South Georgia (Falkland islands), this was nothing but a small glacier being used for 'make a dollar tourism'. We have seen many great sights in Canada, but this was no one of them."
If you are driving between Jasper and Banff stop of here. The cafe is always packed so go to the sandwich bar for a coffee and snack. Go for the icefield trip on the Glacia in one of the special tank like vehicles. The Glacia is accessible on foot this time of year but when it' snows it's by trip only. Go it won't be there forever as it has really receded since we first went about ten years ago
"awesome, cold wrap up warm even if the sun is shining it's cold on the glacier. it can be slippery. well worth seeing"
This tour was well worth doing. Amazing scenery and the staff are friendly and fun. The Skywalk included in the tour which was equally as interesting and amazing to see.
"First thing it is a Glacier and is cold, might be obvious but not to everyone. The trip lasts about an hour but it is long enough the operation is slick. Coach to the base and snow-coach on to the glacier, dress up warm the wind is high which adds to the wind chill. We were on the ice for 15 mins that was long enough. You need good shoes and use a walking stick if worried. Saying that go it was very interesting as the drivers give a chat on the way up."
"Travelled home yesterday from Banff but instead of going to Edmonton via Calgary, I took the time to drive up the parkway because of the view. I was not disappointed especially when i we got to Hilda Ridge. I love snow and finally got to see some serious snow in the mountains and enjoy a few flurries."
"Cool place (literally, it's colder than any other place around it) which is accessible by a special bus leaving from the visitor center, taking you to the heart of the glacier itself.However, another good option of enjoying this place is just park and walk to the glacier's toe - a moderate climb well worth the effort."
"The ice field has recessed way back. Don't spend 80CDN to go out on the ice. One can park across from the center and walk up to the ice I believe, I didn't. I tried not to have a high expectation since I have been inside a ice glacier in the Alps. It was sad because they had the heavy equipment out on the ice when it was raining lightly destroying the ice more. In time it will not be there - and no it's not global warming, just evolution - people just helping it along!"
"Great once off experience, surpassed expectations... Friendly staff and really well organised... I thought the buses looked great with wheels taller than me!"
We went up and got to spend some time with tour group that went on our bus. Everyone was so concerned with speaking Chinese you kinda felt like second class persons. the ice field is great to see and if your driver knows a little your will learn a lot. Great for a date type adventure.
"It was about half mile in to which you must walk to .Car park is free and there are toilet facilities there its up hill and there are markings as to how fast its shrinking .For us we walked to the glacier and then the snow started it was beautiful .There is a large hotel serving food and drinks and accomodation,well worh a visit"
Incredible sights needed longer on the ice. Commentary excellent. Guides very friendly. a real must if in this area.
"My 2nd trip to the icefield in 15 years , i love the fact that they have many more facilities now and especially the museum and the theatre showing film on the icefielf .. If in canada you have to see the icefields its a experience , the drive to the fields is only so super that you shall fall in love for sure. do wear warm clothes and gloves as you wouldnt miss the melting water drink for sure."
"Worth a stop for a few hours to go out onto the glacier, visit the Ice Field Center, and learn from their very informed staff"
"Beautiful for sure, however we only had 15 minutes before we had to be back on the bus. 6 people had to find another ride back as our driver would not stop once he started to back up.Bring an empty bottle so you can fill it with glacier water, so good!!!"
"I wouldn't bother paying the expensive fees to be taken onto this ice field so you can stand there and go 'it's an ice field' just look at it from the road for free. It's a bit ironic really, there's a big hoo ha about the ice field retreating and blaming global warming whilst there are hundreds of gas guzzling vehicles to the car park and people trampling all over it!"
"It makes me sad to see how far the glacier has receded. you can see by the marks on the mountains how big it used to be. But it's still impressive. This glacier is accessible, it's only minutes walk from the parking lot. Accessible means you can get close, but you cannot climb or walk it. You can book a guided tour and walk the glacier with a guide, or get on one of the 4-wheel drive buses that drive across the ice. Otherwise you can see the glacier from the path which is pretty close to the ice. A very nice stop on the icefields parkway."
"This review is strictly for the brewster tours to the ice field and the skywalk. Not really worth paying almost $90 to go onto the bus plus the skywalk that's about a 7minute drive away. You can see the glacier from across the road, and you can also walk across the road and to the lake to get a closer view. If you really want to try walking on glacier, I recommend just doing the tour to the ice field, but definitely not the skywalk (skywalk costs almost $30 if you purcahse it separately).Brewster seems organized, except that we were supposed to board the bus at 4pm and was delayed by almost 15 minutes because one of the buses returned late. We ended up having only 10 minutes on the glacier. Maybe my experence would've been different if we were able to spend more time on the glacier, but if you live in Canada, you're pretty used to walking on ice and snow in the winter. So it'd be just as fun without getting on the bus."
The drive down the Icefield Parkway has to rate as one of the most magnificent sights I have ever seen. Snow capped mountains you can just reach out of the car to touch....will never forget this experience.
The ride out on the ice explorers were unique! Hard to believe a single tire costs $5000.Felt like you were riding on the moon buggy ! The glacier was huge and the sheer expanse of the ice fields were mind boggling! Walking on the Glacier Skywalk was very unique and the movie at the information center was entertaining !
Breath taking glacier. Went here twice and it was easily the best part of the Rockies trip. Make sure not to miss the walk to the base of the glacier.
We hiked to the base of Athabaska Glacier in the Columbia Ice Field and it was sobering to see how much the ice has receded over time. They actually have signs showing where the ice was at various points in the past. To see how deep and massive the Glacier was at one point is almost unbelievable. The hike was somewhat steep and the footing difficult at times so the walk is not suitable for all ages. They do offer bus/snow cat tours up into the actual Glacier but we did not do that.
"I've visited the ice field several times over the last decade and it has shrunk even in that time. It grows a few meters over winter, but recedes more than double that over the summer. It's definitely something to see if you have the opportunity, there are several options to get out onto the glacier, or simply walk up from the carpark."
Excellent trip to walk on the Glacier. Very enjoyable trip which is well organised and the guide/driver was very knowledgeable and gave a good commentary during the drive.
"This was a great experience. Brewsters travel do this activity well with a bus transfer to the Glacier vehicle. It is all very well organised and our online pre-purchased tickets meant we had no waiting time and express entry. The Glacier was great, although my husband in his infinite Australian wisdom wore his down jacket with shorts!! It was freezing and actually snowed but a fabulous adventure. Dont forget to take some empty bottles to fill with the crystal clear and pure Glacier water - just lovely!"
A must when at Jasper! The truck/bus that takes you to the Glacier is very unique. Ask the driver for a description of it. The walk on top of the Glacier is very unique.
"This place gets very crowded. The only suggestion is to either do this activity early 10am or later after 4pm and you willmiss most of the crowds.There are 2 attractions, one is the Ice Explorer (20 mins walk with a 5 mins bus ride and a 20mins monster truck ride) and the glacier skywalk ( no time constraints).Overall well organized and remember your bus number or driver as this would help facilitate your movement.Highly informative, educational andfun activity.As others have mentioned there is no toilet after the ticketing place but there are little cubicles which the staff uses at the glacier start point."
"This is a great place to stop along the Icefields Parkway. You can park at either the visitors centre or at the foot of the glacier. The visitor centre houses some interesting photos and a free movie about the glacier. There are also bathrooms and a number of reasonably priced eating options. Tour on to the glacier leave from here - we didn't do this as it's quite expensive to stand on some ice. Instead, we parked at the lower car park and made the walk up the hill to the bottom of the glacier which is really worth doing. Be prepared as it gets really cold, especially if the wind is blowing over the ice. The views are excellent."
"What a trip, what an experience! You need to be dressed warm as with the wind chill it was -17C!! Snow storm while we were coming down too!!"
This was a fantastic experience and definitely not to be missed. The whole part of it was very well done including the 2 bus transfers.
"We purchased a three event package and going out onto Athabasca Glacier was one of the three. It was a cool, both literal and figurative, trip."
Brewster have the trip out onto the glacier all sewn up. They have a slick operation. It is well worth seeing the magnificence of the glacier. It's sad to see how it is receding.
This is a not to be missed experience. Everyone is driven to the ice field in an elevated coach with massive tyres so as not to slide on the ice. The young student drivers give a constant talk about the history and future of the ice field. Once on the ice field everyone gets out to walk on the packed ice - the scenery is spectacular and is just a lot of fun!
An amazing experience. For our first Glazier it was worthwhile. Disappointing we only had a few minutes to enjoy it. Sad to see and told how fast the Ice Field is contracting.
"We had been advised by a few locals we had met along our travels that it wasn't worth the $90 to ride on the ice bus to actually walk on the glacier.We drove right up to the glacier, down the road right in front of the visitor centre and walked up as close as you could get, this in my opinion was amazing enough and didn't feel the need to actually go onto the glacier. The visitor centre itself has fantastic views over the glacier so worth a trip up the steps but it was so busy, it confirmed my initial feeling that I would not want to be herded onto a bus for $90 to stand on the glacier. So definitely visit but look from a distance and appreciate what is left of the glacier without contributing to further erosion."
"The Athabascar glacier is a must see. The glacier is much shorter due to global warming. Everyone can enjoy the view whether from the Icefield Visitor Centre, hiking to the tongue of the glacier or paying for a trip to walk on the glacier."
"Not too often, you can walk on a Glacier. There are four red Adirondack chairs to sit in for a photo op on the glacier. It definitely gets cold here, so wear gloves and a hat and layer up. The view are extraordinary and it is definitely a memorable place to visit."
We drove by care nearby the glacier. We walk up for a few minutes and we stood really close near the glacier. It was very windy and cold but is was a really amazing experience!
Cost is $85 CAD per adult to go in the tundra buggy to actually walk on the surface of the glacier which is really expensive unless you want to walk on a glacier - we just walked to the foot of the glacier and took photo's for free then spent the money saved on food for the day!!
We got the big truck up to the glacier (although I did question if it was morally right to stand on a glacier). We were lucky to have sunshine and it made for terrific photographs. Amazing to see the glacier at such close quarters although we were told it probably won't be here in 100 years!!
"This was part of our Cosmos Tour of the Rockies and what an experience it was. We arrived and spent a few minutes looking around the shop before getting on our coach to take us up to the snow explorer about a five minute journey where we were introduced to our guide / driver, who was extremely informative and jovial in his manner. Sitting high up in the snow explorer you get a really good view of the glacier and watch out for the very steep descent down to the glacier! Once up on the glacier you are allowed a few minutes to walk on the glacier itself with some people filling up their water bottles with the glacier water. It is very cold up there so make sure that you layer up. We found ourselves soon descending down to the coach station where we taken back to the information area where we purchased a hot chocolate from the cafe well received."
"This is a trip that we did with the family...and a few friends who had joined us that week from Edmonton....It is concerning when the guides tell us that the glacier is retreating and show us markers of where the glacier at various points in our own lifetimes...and it has amazing and humbling views of the glacier...the trip in the large humvees is worth the money...and standing atop the glacier gives you feeling of its enormity and nature's impact on planet earth...we should take care and manage our resources...its starts by educating our children about trees, water and its management...beautiful feather in cap trip when visiting Jasper..."
How many glaciers has a person got to walk on!!! The tires on the bus are at least 6ft tall!! Make sure to take a cup with you. They use to let you drink from the water running thru the icefield. Best water you'll ever have.
This is a unique experience and one which will be long remembered. Give yourself time and you will be awed by the natural beauty.
Our Guide for the tour was 'Super Kyle'. He was great. He was very entertaining as well as being informative. This is a great experience and I would recommend this trip to anyone who loves science and the natural world.
Stop for a picnic or visit the visitor center. Several glaciers can be viewed from the parking lot. Worth the stop.
This must be done once in a lifetime. The question is how many more years the snow coaches can keep running as the glacier is receding quickly.
If you have never walked on a glacier this experience is well worth it. You are driven out onto the glacier in a large wheeled vehicle (ice explorer) and this is a great experience in itself. You are then given a short time to walk out on your own - enjoy a sip of the glacier water!
Enjoyed the whole experience. Ness the tour guide/driver was exceptional and made the whole tour.We also visited the sky walk as this is part of the tour.This was very impressive if you have a head for heights.
"I assume that this item refers to the complex alongside the Icefield Parkway. We tried to get into this place when heading both north and south, but on each occasion we were greeted by ""Road Closed"" signs across the entrance to the parking lot, which appeared to be completely filled with coaches. It appeared to us that the independent traveller is not welcomed at this facility, all they want is coach loads of captive tourists."
"We did the ""Ice Walk"" from this area. I found it fascinating to learn about the glacier and the signs on the approach road that showed how much it has receded in just the past 100 years."
"It's worth the stop if you can tolerate all the tourists. It's a fairly quick stop if you pre-purchase. The skywalk can be skipped, although it's cool, you have to take their bus to and from which can be aggravating"
"We were a bit short on time so opted to go to the lower parking lot and trek on foot to the fields. Trust me, the path is way steeper than it looks from the main building...lol. Was windy and cool so we did not doddle at all but we did get an appreciation for the mass and saw some very cool formations. Next time I would plan better and take the bus ride onto the field. Overall not something you will likely need to do twice but everyone should experience it once for sure."
"The ice field is CRAZY INSANE! It is by far one of the best sights in that area and it is a MUST SEE. The experience is fascinating and the facilities, staff, busses, and ice explorers are great. It was such a good time to get to the ice field and walk on the glacier. Surprisingly it was warmer than I expected.One thing to be mentioned is for visitors to keep inside the barricaded area... the area is barricaded for a reason and too many people just ignore that completely."
A few years ago during an Alaskan Cruise I had the opportunity to view a glacier. Viewing the Columbia Icefields and the Athabasca Glacier was so very different and better! The Discovery Centre imparts a lot of information about the glacier formation as well as the melting of it. As a visitor you can purchase a ticket to ride a tundra buggy on the glacier and walk on it. Some tour companies schedule walking tours on the glacier. If neither appeals to you then you can drive your vehicle to the parking lot adjacent to the glacier and take a short but challenging hike to the base of it. Along the way you see signs where the glacier extended at that point in time. One really gets a sense of how much ice has melted and how much the glacier has receded.Well over 100 years ago the glacier extended across the main road to the Discovery Centre. AMAZING! Much like the Skywalk this is a must see!
"You can do it yourself if you have a car ,park at the bottom and walk up don't think it's worth the cat trip but we have done this type of thing before ,so if it's a once in a lifetime trip maybe better to go on the ice with cat tour ,depends on weather and time of year ,was sunny and mild when we were there"
"We were a little short on time so didn't get the chance to take the bus out and actually walk on the icefield, but next time for sure. The view of it from the balconies is awe inspiring. Going back for sure!"
We took the ice explorer up the glacier and walked on the Athabaska glacier. The driver was informative and lots of fun too. Back at the main station there are some informative videos as well.
"If you fancy being herded like cattle this attraction is right up your street. However, if you've skied you really won't get much from it. We'd prebooked so felt obliged to do Brewster tours on the glacier but wish we hadn't. Based on glacier experience we did not do sky walk even having bought ticket to do so."
"Great to see glaciers, must do ice walking tour if you want to see more and experience more than just a bus ride. Great fun!"
"My wife and I have been around a lot of glaciers. We have watched ice calving in Alaska. However, we have never walked on a glacier before. This was really great! The ride out to the ice fields on the snow bus was very interesting and exciting. The snowcat is slow and steady and handles the 18 degree negative slope without any difficulty. Overall, the trip took about 1 1/2 hours with about 20 minutes spent walking on the glacier."
We saw this on our drive from Banff to Jasper and went back to visit and we were glad we did. The trip was fantastic and a good day out. The staff were really friendly and Thomas was our driver on to the ice fields who had great knowledge. You are on the glacier for 45 mins then go onto the skywalk afterwards. The weather was gorgeous and we got some great pictures. All must visit!
"Wonderful place to spend an afternoon would definitely recommend. Wrap up warm as it get very cold in September. Very majestic, camera is a must."
"Ethical views aside, this is a really fun thing to do for kids and adults alike. The tour bus that takes you to the glacier has massive wheels and every guide is excellent. To see how geology has affected our planet is excellent to see and the tour is professionally done and we'll organised."
"My wife and I visited the ice field on 13/09. We were on a Rocky Mountaineer tour with Brewsters, so once our driver had secured our tickets, we were transported up to the SnoCoach terminal and were soon being directed to one of specially built coaches.We were transported on to the glacier on coach 543, which was driven by Connor. He did a wonderful job of explaining the geology and science of the area, the glaciers, plus the development and performance characteristics of the coach.It's when you discover where the ice was in 1840 (the location of the centre by the Icefields Parkway) and how 2 other glaciers (including the one coming off Mt Andromeda) used to feed into the main Athabasca one, that you realise how much climate change and global warming has effected our planet.We were allowed to step off the bus and explore the safe area that had been marked out for visitors to get the feel of a glacier beneath their feet.Although it is very commercialised and regimented, this attraction offers us 'non-explorer' types the opportunity to walk on a glacier and to learn how it has been created and moves.Safety tip - please make sure you take some warm clothes, decent shoes, sunglasses and sunscreen."
"The amount of glaciers along the Highway is almost hard to believe. On nearly every mountain you can see views of the glaciers, and you can get very close to them."
If yon need a shocking realtime revelation of the effects of Global Warming this stop needs to be on your reality check list.
We arrived before 10 am as we had read that it gets really busy thereafter. We didn't have to wait long for a coach to take us to the ice truck to the ice fields which you can see from the road. Once there we were told that we were getting off the bus onto the icefields at our own risk. No advice was given about foot wear and clampons were not offered . A lot of people struggled on the ice. The return bus back to the centre took ages to collect us. The gift shop was very pricey even compared to other gift shops. Informative guide on the transport to the icefields.
"The glacier is beautiful, sad to hear it is receding. Very expensive for the tours....if you do decide on the tours it seems it would be better if your purchased the tickets prior as the cues were very long.We chose to hike it to the base. Be prepared as it was quite cool . When hiking up just take your time due to the altitude.The patio which has comfy chairs has an excellent view for those who are unable to hike the distance.Great photo ops!"
it is interesting to see a glacier if you never have before but this is overly commercialized and less exciting than I would have thought. The staff tries hard and I suppose it is worth doing once.
"We bought the adventure pack with cruise, gondola, glacier walk and skywalk. You make your way to the Columbian ice fields and then they bus groups out onto the ice. Sadly you are only on the ice for ~15mins but as it was the first time my sons ever done anything like this we had to do it. Was good but recommend doing the early morning one with a few less people to fight for the perfect pictures. And take a water bottle to collect glacial water. They didn't say that to us but our friends did it a few months back.Also they don't provide anything (like crimping shoes) so make sure you are dessed to walk on ice and be in the cold. Oh and it snowed while we were up there yay."
We visited the ice field eighteen years. Stopped by the visitor's center on September 18 just to take a quick look as my son told me that it was not as spectacular as before. He was right. But it snowed as we arrived the parking lot. It was a treat for us Texans to see snow. Totally worth the trip.
To see the changes that are occurring over time is startling. It's a piece of environmental history everyone needs to see to appreciate and understand. Makes an individual very aware of our impact.
Very enjoyable visit to the glacier and skywalkOur driver Ness was great fun and made driving at 5 mph seem very exciting and had some funny storiesThe ice field is sloppier than I anticipated and my walking boots were rubbish for grip. We had snow but still feel some more grippier footwear would be better than heavy walking gear as it isn't wet or slushy - it was c-5cWell worth a visit
A must do in Canada! It was snowing the day we went. So being from way south Texas it was a special treat. I was a little uneasy about walking out on the ice ( over 65) but had no problems. Need to dress warm where non slip type tennis and enjoy.!!!
"We were going to do the Glacier Skywalk but we drove past it on the way, it is nothing like the promotional photos and was nowhere near the Glacier. The glacier itself has receded so far there doesnt seem to be much of it left. Excursions to both are expensive and for us not worth it. We did drive to a car park near the bottom of the Glacier and walk up to where you get a better view, and that was enough for us."
we chose to hike to the base of the glacier which was fascinating and informative. I'm not sure driving hundreds of people onto the glacier every day matches with the dire warnings of the increasing speed with which the glacier is disappearing. well worth a visit though
Well worth a visit. We prebooked and avoided having to wait for a tour. Was quite busy. Well oragnised. Enthusiastic guides. Staff very helpful. Glacier is quite stunning.
"We enjoyed the drive up to the glacier and the information the guides provided was very interesting. The huge ice buses were neat, and it was cool to walk on the glacier. However the actual area where you could walk was very small, and it was extremely crowded. I understand the small area-they don't want tourists wandering all over the glacier. But then they should pace the tours better so that it doesn't become so crowded. There was a small channel running where you could fill your water bottle with glacier water, but I couldn't get near it for all the people. The interpretive centre has one restaurant and two cafeteria-type eating areas. We picked the one with the smallest line up, which turned out to only have hot dogs and stale sandwiches. I would recommend eating somewhere else."
"Can not walk onto the glacier without paying for a tour, even though we already paid to access the national park. The bus tour was $85 CAD without taxes, and the centre was extremely crowded even in late September. Parked the car at the lot near the glacier and walked as close to it as was allowed. There are placards explaining the receding process and geology of the area. The ice field was fascinating, but it was depressing to see tour companies monopolizing access to one of Canada's national treasures."
"We had intended to do the Brewster trip onto the ice, however someone who used to work there advised us it wasn't worth it and that thousands of people we carted up to the ice everyday. When we arrived we were surprised at how close you could park and walk to the glacier for free. This showed as much as the glacier as the bus, just from the bottom angle and had information boards. We decided just to go further up wasn't worth the cost and it was clear that the tourism is contributing the glacier melting - this seems very unethical when there is a lot of information about how much it's receding. The building itself was extremely busy and I could image a tour on the ice would involve a lot of waiting and stress. It is also not at all cheap. I may be wrong as we didn't go on the ice, but save the money, and the glacier, and just walk."
poorly designed building - the architect must have hated old people - access very hard as there are hundreds of steps
There are two ways to view the icefield: 1) you can park in the car park thats on the same side of the road as the glacier and walk towards it. You can view the glacier from here but you cannot walk on it. 2) if you can afford the $90 ticket you can reach the icefield via the tour run from the information centre. This includes a bus from the centre up to the side of the glacier and then a ride on the ice explorer on to the glacier. Here you can get off and walk on the glacier. Included in your ticket is access to the sky walk. Would highly recommend doing the tour as the guides were very informative and it is really well organised. However if you are on a budget it is still possible to enjoy the beauty of the glacier from a distance.
"We went on a Brewster bus tour going from Jasper to Lake Louise and this was a stop en route.
It's an unforgettable experience to stand on a glacier which is thousands of years old, surrounded by such beautiful mountain scenery."
"You had two options. One was the skywalk only or skywalk and glacier tour. For the glacier tour they take snow coach type busses out on the glacier (which the lady at the ticket counter failed to tell me, she just threw a picture down on the counter and offered no explanation). You are driven to the skywalk in a bus (no public parking). You can stay as long as you like and take any buss back."
"The Columbia Icefield is an overcrowded tourist trap, destroying what is left of a majestic glacier for money. There are so many more beautiful vistas that are free. Stay away. Do not waste your money."
The icefields and Parkway are very impressive. Its amazing to realize the icefields feed 3 oceans. Parkway is as fine a drive as you could want. And there are some great hikes. We stopped at Parker Ridge trail which brings you up to a great view of glacier and mountains in less than an hour.
"We found the hike across the Icefield to be educational, a good workout and really interesting. Didn't brave a bus tour but enjoyed the walk."
This is an amazing view of a glacier. You can park your car right up the path to the toe of the glacier. It is a short steep walk and than you're right there. At the center you can book at tour on the glacier with a bus. This can be nice but we didn't do it because for us it was not enough value for the money you've to pay.Enjoy!
"It seems to be getting more crowded. This is a unique drive as you drive long a range of mountains, just below the Ice Field, rather than across it."
"For about $60 Canadian we had the option to visit the glacier. We were only there 20 minutes or so, but it was a great experience. You can see patches of blue ice affected by glaciation. Standing on the glacier was a cold experience worth taking."
"Since the ice fields are at such a high elevation, it can be difficult getting a clear view of them due to what can seem like perpetual mist. Beautiful in itself, it can frustrate someone wanting a clear view of the ice field and its glaciers. If you're disappointed by the weather, a quick trip to ""Google"" can show you what it looks like when clear. If you're among the lucky ones that see it live, bravo!"
"If you get over the mass tourism this is a great experience. Get there early and pre book. Well organised with good guides. I loved it all, especially the glazier walk."
Another beautiful place with stunning views. Gets quite chilly so plenty of layers recommended. Camera strongly recommended.
"Great to get on board a huge transporter and be taken onto the glacier.Only got 20 mins on the ice, and it was very busy with other travellers so taking pics was very rushed . Thought we would have seen more from what was advertised. Bit disappointed, but still glad we did the trip. The better part of the trip was the glacier skywalk, very interesting and informative and some great picture opportunities. Go at your own pace, no rush. Well worth it."
"On arriving we ate at the visitor centre before boarding the coach and it was very, very expensive. As for the experience itself we really enjoyed it. The staff were amazing! So young, so confident, so enthusiastic! You get an ordinary coach to start and then transfer to the 'Snocoach.' Our snocoach was driven by 18 year old Evangeline. I was very impressed with this young lady - she was lovely and her skill at driving this huge 'coach' was amazing. Whilst managing to drive this coach she also gave a very interesting commentary which she also managed to make amusing. On arrival at the glacier you get off the coach (although you don't have to if you don't want to) and experience walking on an actual glacier. It was cold although not unbearable. The whole experience ran seamlessly and I would definitely recommend."
Not as fantastic as publicized. I would not take an other ride to ice field as it seems that the ice field tour mobiles are harming the environment more than anything else.
"Once you pass Louise lake you will have to plan for frequent stops at multiple lakes, some which may not be highlighted by the tourist center in Banff, but certainly worth the 5-10 minute stop. The highway will take about 2-3 hours return trip to drive through and if you plan to go all the way to the columbia icefield center and take a daytrip to the glacier and skywalk, you should plan on a full day of activities with this drive."
We chose to do the free hike up to the glacier instead of paying to do the bus or hike. It's not worth the time unless your willing to pay the money to do the tourist activities. If you do the free hike just know you cannot get in to the ice of the glacier.
"Wrap up warm for this experience as it was extremely cold the day we went out on to the glacier. This tour was an experience not to be missed. Careful with footwear as the ice is very slippery. I thought my footwear would be okay but it wasn't. The guides are very knowledgeable, using humour on the drive out and back on the ice explorer. Loved the experience even though it was drizzling."
This makes a great Christmas card photograph. It began to snow while we were there. The tour was too expensive so we walked for free and enjoyed every step. Get someone to take your picture.
"We arrived at the ice fields center in the morning and was able to avoid the bus tours. Where else can you take a bus and end up on a glacier. And it's cold up there, don't forget your jacket."
"Thoroughly enjoyed this. Busy place but staff expertly move people from the main building via coach to the staging post for the trip in the huge wheeled vehicles to the field. Not far but vehicle is slow so takes 20 mins. Staff are a lot of fun and provide banter and interesting info on the field. Be prepared for the cold when up there. I purchased gloves and hat from the shop. My shoes were not great on the slippery ice. Recommend buying something to fit on normal trainers or walking boots. But did manage to stay on my feet being extra careful. Just! Views kept changing all the time; cloudy, some blue sky, some sun, snow, fog. It did allow for some good pics but of course a clear day is what you hope for. Not sure of some of the negative comments for this as I thought it was well worth it. Main building has everything you need and a shop with clothes, hats, gloves if you forget. Place has the most female cubicles in the female rest room. In the Guinness Book of Records apparently!"
"Very interesting ride up onto the glacier. The vehicle was great and the commentary was very informative. Something you probably do once or twice, being on a glacier, during your life. Standing on ice 700+ feet thick was something to tell the grandchildren about."
"It was cold and wet when we visited. I wore my gloves too!!! The track vehicle is warm and toasty inside which takes you up onto the Glacier. Its a very interesting and different ride, going through what looks like, a gravelpit. Getting up on the Glacier, you are rewarded,if you look carefully, cravas, beautiful blue colour in holes.Getting out on the ice is very slippery if you are unsure underfoot! You can fill your water bottle of pure water too, coming off the glacier. It is quite the sight in the swirling clouds!"
A stunning sight but shame about the commercialisation: a huge building opposite where there is every opportunity to buy buy buy and in particular to take visitors on a coach to the side of the glacier and then on a snow-coach to actually take you on to the glacier (and get your picture taken). I chose not to do this - I can't believe it is good for this already receding glacier which looks perfectly stunning viewed from the balcony of the building opposite. Building also contains appalling toilets and cafe.
We walked on the Glacier which was absolutely amazing. Make sure you wear sensible shoes and warm clothes.
"The whole journey along the Icefields highway is simply fantastic!
The opportunity to walk on the glacier is something special and a terrific experience."
"The tour to the Athabasca Glacier is run to a tight schedule. You board a coach to a transition point (5 mins) and then board a giant snowmobile that slowly negotiates the slippery steep inclines, at one point you cannot see the road at the bottom of a huge drop! A bit like a slow motion roller-coaster ride. The commentary once aboard was very informative and given by a lovely Aussie girl. Once at the Glacier we disembarked, it was so very cold - as one would expect. The Glacier was very busy with a number of snowmobiles and people gingerly walking about, which I found a little disappointing, would have preferred it a little less crowded, its very much a shuttle service. After our allotted time the mobile driver sounded the horn and we had another rollercoaster ride back to the transition point and then back to the visitor centre. It ran seamlessly and precisely timed."
"We didn't know the time we'd be going and the previous day on the way through it had been snowing, so we didn't bother. We were just up the road in Jasper, so dropped down for the visit and should have popped into the Brewster re (you can book in person at anyBrewster place, but not over the phone). Turn up on-spec and you will have to wait. It was fairly quiet when we were there and we had to wait 2 hrs - there's only so much enjoyment available from selfies and a cafeteria. If you have to book a long way ahead you are weather dependent. If you book on the day, you can vary your arrival time by the weather forecast - but be warned, it changes by the minute - we had five different types in a three hour visit, but had sunshine and a rainbow in the valley for our glacier walk."
We did not plan to do this after seeing other reviews but everyone but us on our tour was keen so we went along with it rather than just sit and wait for everyone to come back. The place was heaving and though the whole process is very organised and slick in terms off moving groups on and off various buses and snowmobiles it still drags out the time. Basically at the end you get 20 mins to sliver about on dirty ice with hundreds of other people in a confined area at a cost of over 80 dollars for the 2 of you. It really is not worth it and wish really we had stuck to our guns and not wasted the money.
An extremely thrilling experience going on the snow (I think it was called) mobile onto the glacier itself. It was a fantastic vehicle that went up and down gravelly and icy surfaces with ease. Getting out onto the ice was exhilarating. We followed the advice 'heel toe' so nobody slipped over. Rather overpriced we felt though.
"This Icefield is conveniently located off the highway, but is overcrowded and commercialized. The cafeteria serves mediocre, overpriced food. It's certainly worth a photo or two, but hike Mount Edith Cavell (short walk) if you want to get close to a glacier and save yourself some money and manufactured fun. IMHO."
"We pre booked our tickets and time slot to avoid the queues. Transfer to the ice field was slick and well timed. Mike was our driver/guide he was fun and informative. We didn't go as far out onto the ice field as I imagined we would. We got out and walked on ice, very slippery!Mike warned us that because of time slots We had 15 minutes on the ice then he would have to leave. Unfortunately some people overstayed and got left behind so had to get another vehicle backThe restaurant and cafe at the visitors centre were both full and very busy so we just grabbed a cold drink and sat outside."
A short walk moslty uphill to view this rapidly shrinking glacier is a must if traveling on the Columbia Parkway.
"A visit to the Athabaska Glacier on the Columbia Ice Field was a first for me. Not only are you getting a sightseeing tour, you learn about the geology of the area. Very interesting."
"As part of our trip package with the Rocky Mountaineer, we had tickets to ride the excursion out on to the Athabasca glacier. It's certainly worth doing if you have the time, both for the chance to be out on an actual glacier, and the ride to get there is certainly an eTicket with a 36° incline to be navigated. Be prepared for it to be bright and sunny, so bring your hat, sunscreen and sunglasses."
"This is just out of the place experience from the time you get into the bus. The explorer bus driver/guide are very knowledgeable, funny and courteous. More than the glacier, I loved the trilling bus drive to the glacier point. We are given about 30min to spend on the glacier, which is sufficient considering the weather. Make sure to bundle up the little ones even during the summertime with unpredictable weather."
"You catch a coach with all the other tourists from the Icefields Visitors Centre to the 'station' where you transfer to one of the massive Ice Explorer vehicles. That then takes you on a 'roller coaster' ride to the Athabasca Glacier. There you alight for the 15 mins experience of walking on the roped off area of a glacier - and it's worth it, not just to be close, but actually standing on one. It's cold, but not unreasonably for the time you are there. It's also busy, so be prepared for other people being in your photographs.The young woman driving the Ice Explorer, was energetic, enthusiastic, informative and funny, which provided perceived drama to the 'roller coaster' ride.The whole exercise is not cheap, but still, worth it.The sad thing to learn is that the glacier is losing about 7 - 10 metres of length a year, as well as depth. See it soon, because who knows whether it will be there in 20 or 30 years."
It was great to be able to walk on the glacier but there were lots of people on it at any time and I worried a bit about all the damage that these many tourists could do to such a fragile glacier. But don't be turned off just expect crowds.
"We were with a large party with one lady in a wheel chair. We all had an amazing trip with helpful staff until it was time to depart.Our wheelchair lady was nowhere to be found, the Brewster organization (oxymoron) had lost her but told us that she had been returned.She was eventually found at the Skywalk where she had been dumped.This spoilt everyones day as we now had a rush on."
"Really good way of getting up close to a glacier. The machine that took us onto the ice field was huge and the road was a little scary, especially when the driver left us hanging on a very steep part of the ride, felt like a ride at a theme park. The driver, an Ozzie, was a great laugh and very knowledgeable about the area. Well worth the visit."
Standing on the ice field makes you realize how insignificant we are! True beauty! Took Brewster busses with Hugh wheels....had Super Kyle as our driver. Funny young man with great attitude ....a must in the Rockies!
Magnificent to look at. The view is superb. My camera was on max problem will be which ones to keep on returning home
"It was a very different experience. The bus took us to the special snow vehicles, and we were taken up to the glacier. A unique experience, if not very slippy! Staff gave lots of information and were very friendly. Good cafeteria at the base, where we got drinks. A very good experience"
This was part of our tour from our Scenic tour group.From the public car park we were taken by a bus to the foot of the mountain.The driver cum guide was very bubbly and friendly.Then we were taken by this special bus called glacier express on to the glacier- Columbia Icefield.we then could off the bus and walk on the glacier.We also were able to taste the glacier water fresh from the glacier.Lovely experience.
"We took a tour run by Brewester. The bus took us on top of the Athabasca Glacier. The guide was informative and very friendly, was able to answer all questions. Very interesting tour! A must see if you have never seen a glacier."
"Athabasca glacier is beautiful and is an experiance for someone who has not been on a glacier before but it is annoying that you have to pay for the Jasper sky walk too, The views from there are just useless and is a complete and utter waste of time ."
The ride up the Glacier was the highlight. Been on glaciers before in NZ which were a bit more impressive. If you're fit do the icewalk tour as this gives you a a close up and personal experience with the Glacier.
"After reading a review and hearing how average the skywalk is, we decided to drive to the bottom of the ice field and walk up the short steepish hill to see the site. Worthwhile but not too pretty , more interesting than beautiful, and defo not worth paying £ 50 each."
"The Columbia Icefield is located in the southern end of Jasper National Park in the Canadian Rockies. It is the largest expanse of ice outside of the Arctic. Six main glaciers make up this ""field."" Because the area is situated on the Continental Divide, the melt from these glaciers flows into the Pacific, Atlantic, AND Arctic Oceans; feeding fresh water systems as far away as the Hudson Bay, Columbia River, and more. The Athabasca glacier is the most accessible one to this field. This glacier is rapidly shrinking in volume and receding at a current rate of approximately 16 feet per year. As the ice retreats, it leaves behind a moonscape of gravel and rock. This barren scape is enhanced by the surreal blue of glacial veins -- a combination that makes for some great photo opportunities. This is a fairly easy glacier to access, but the weather in the field is unpredictable and can be difficult. For example, on this day we were sporadically accompanied by high winds, vast silences, and various forms of precipitation (snow, ice, rain)."
We did the Columbia Ice Field tour and really enjoyed it. Not too often do you get to walk on an ice field without having to take a helicopter to experience it. Here you ride on buses outfitted with large wheels to safely get you onto the ice field. We walked around and filled our water bottles with ice cold glacier water. It was a once in a lifetime experience not to be missed.
We were taken to the ice field and the skywalk as part of a package on our trip. Brewster's guides are courteous and well informed and the driver of the ice explorer vehicle that took us onto the glacier was entertaining a and a great source of information. An experience worth having.
"Spent some time here at the Columbia Ice Field. As we were part of an organised tour, we went on the provided transport right on to the Glacier. Getting there was quite enjoyable, we had a great, knowledgeable driver who told us all we needed to know. It was so busy though that photos were a challenge. We had an allotted time there which wasn't long enough before the next set of tourists arrived. Bring a paper cup from the restaurant and drink some of the glacier water. Pure and cold."
"This is first time we walked over the glacier ice. To witness the melting ice dripping away under our feet. Sad to hear that this glacier probably will be gone in 40 years. We, human being, all contribute to the death of the glaciers!"
"We got a package deal that included a ticket to take a bus to the ice field and then change to an Ice Explorer vehicle to take us onto the Athasbaca Glacier. We were able to walk on a portion of the glacier. We had brought along our hiking poles which proved very helpful to avoid slipping on slick parts of ice. We brought along a water bottle to fill with water from the glacier. When the bus returned to pick us up, it took us straight to the Sky Walk. This was much better than I expected with a free audio tour included. By the time we got back to the visitor's center we had been away about 3 hours."
This is one of those excursions you have to do. You board a normal coach for the 4 minute ride to the transit station when you switch over to your snow explorer which takes you up on to the glacier. Once on the glacier you get time to get out take pictures and enjoy. I would have liked more than the 20 minutes you get but it was still excellent. it was snowing today which made it even more memorable
"In typical USA-owned Brewster fashion, the charge of C$89.25 for the combined Columbia Icefield and viewing area two hour two is excessive.However there is no doubting the beauty of this icefield, accentuated by a light snowfall as I observed.For those of us from nations such as Australia that largely lack icy conditions, walking on the roped off area can be treacherous. One man fell, but did not sustain an injury.The glacier is a natural wonder."
The drive from Banff to Jasper along the Columbia ice fields was simply breathtaking. To see how these glaciers have shaped this part of the country is so interesting. The mountains are majestic and each stop along the way seemed more beautiful than the next. Take your time and enjoy the beauty. Pack a picnic lunch and you can find the most amazing places to stop and eat with glaciers as your view! Lots of wildlife to see and many lakes and rivers with turquoise blue water!
Recommend taking the Glacier Adventure on the Ice Explorer with a guide/driver up and onto the surface of the glacier.
"It was a windy , winters day. Dress warm with wind breaker and mitts in September If you wish to go on the bus ride to the Sky walk and the Glacier, I recommend purchasing tickets in advance. The line up was long to purchase tickets and we arrived on a Friday. A weekend would likely be much busier."
"Amazing place, we went there by caitlin's bus and she is a darling, highly accessible and safe thanks to the amazingly convinient transport by special bus made for glacier walk, i doubt whether anywhere else visiting a glacier is this easily accessible. Highly recommended !!"
"This is one of the areas of the world where you just have to visit. The scenery is beautiful, and the appreciation of natural forces is enormous. If you are a walker, there are plenty of trails; as a driver there are plenty of pull outs to appreciate the glaciers.The only limiting factor is the weather. Obviously you will dream of having blue skies for your visit :-)"
"So cool to be that close to a glacier. We did not pay to go hiking on the ice or take a bus ride up there. No need. 5 min walk up a somewhat steep trail takes you very close. Extreme temperature difference from the main road to the uppermost viewing area. Be prepared for artic chill and wind. So interesting to read the plaques, of how the glacier has changed in the last 100 years."
"It's worth the car-ride, but the area is just too packed. Furthermore it's a bit crazy that they bus-tours ON the glacier! That spoils the effect of wild nature! I've seen more impressive glaciers with less people around..."
"The couple of hours we spent here was really worth it. The drive in the truck bus over to the glacier, the 30 mins or so spent there and the drive to the glass walkway over the canyon was well worth the money. This excursion is certainly one to recommend"
"Beautiful scenery, but hard to see over the crowds, and the structured tourism. Very difficult to be spontaneous!"
This spot is amazing and so much history in ice. Take the tour and drive and walk on the glacier and bring an empty water bottle to fill up with fresh glacier water.
"This is a great drive on a lovely day. Its a pity that there are not more accomodation stops between Jasper and Lake Louise to extend the visiting time out. There are plenty of pull ins with great attractions or just fabulous views. Some stops can be a few minutes and others a couple of hours. You have the main Athabasca Falls, Sunwapta Falls, Columbia Icefield, Bow Lake and Peyto Lake. The drive is nice and easy with beautiful views around every corner. We travelled in August which is a peak time and was expecting heavy traffic, but whilst each attraction was well attended we never struggled to park and the highway was definately not very busy. Take your time and enjoy!!!!"
"Our bus tour had scheduled enough time for us to have a quick lunch and see several attractions. We were given times to meet and absolutely everything ran like clockwork. We went out on the glacier in the special vehicle, had time to walk on the ice, then driven to the new over the water viewing platform and walk. It was all spectacular with huge numbers but no one was either hurried or asked to wait for long. The food was slightly like canteen food but they were feeding masses of hungry tourists. The toilets and all amenities were clean and plentiful."
"If you want to go onto the glacier you have two options, either a guided walk or with the ice explorer bus. The shorter easier option is the ice explorer. We arrived relatively early (09:45) which was before most of the masses and were able to just buy tickets and get on the next bus. They take you in a normal bus to a bus depot and transfer you onto the ice explorer. When on the glacier they do give you plenty of time to wander around and take in the view / setting, albeit within a relatively restricted area – this is necessary to minimize the impact on the glacier. Although I have been on glaciers before, it is worth the trip.Unfortunately you can’t just buy a ticket to visit the glacier – it is combined with the Skywalk, which although not part of our original plan was still enjoyable to see the surroundings from a different perspective."
"The parkway undoubtedly is one of the most beautiful places in the world. The vistas are phenomenal and there are adequate pull-outs along the way. Traffic can be a bit tricky, especially when wildlife spotting is involved! You often see bears and other animals along the route. It's the best route between Jasper and Banff."
"It's a four hour drive from Banff to Jasper, and you need a National Parks pass to use the road. But boy, is it worth it! We kept stopping to take pictures and enjoy the mountains, ice fields and glaciers. The road was crowded with many tourists, and some of the parking lots were almost full. Put this on your bucket-list!"
would have been nice to sit and have a tea or a beer but it was worth the trip loved itSpent a lot of time on a bus and then the ice field bus but if you in good shape you can walk up the Glacier that would be nice We went in September and there was a lot of people but not crazy like in the summer
"A very unique experience being able to stand on a glacier that may no longer be here in our lifetime.
Went with Brewster Tours. They shove a LOT of tour groups in a very small space."
We took the tour to the glacier and were somewhat disappointed.There is a lot of time spent driving in a coach and then transferring to the ice explorer bus. Once you reach the glacier you are given half an hour to look around before spending time returning to the centre.Perhaps we were unlucky with our guide but the amount of information about the glacier was quite limited compared to the poor jokes! If I compare it to other similar experiences I found it disappointing.
"The glacier is worth seeing but it looks like the parks people haven't moved the guide ropes since we were there nearly a decade ago, the ice is a long ways away now. The revamped interpretive center is stark and not as informative as I remember it being last time. It used to have all kinds of small child friendly displays, those are all gone in favor of some old photos blown up large and very little else. New theater is beautiful, the film shown is *sweet* but lacks even any dialog, I suppose it's been made to be multilingual friendly for the bus loads of tourists overrunning the upstairs. I came ready to pay the $50 or so that the ice tour used to cost, was dismayed to find out that now you can only take the ice tour bundled with the ""skywalk"" for $85/person. You *can* do the skywalk alone for $35, but not the tour alone. :( Not only did that make one of the things I was really looking forward to doing with my family of 4 completely unaffordable, I am terrified of heights and wouldn't want to do the skywalk in any case! I hope they change that policy and offer the ice tour, I also hope I'll get another chance to do it with my kids before they're gone. Overall I was disappointed with a stop I had remember ed fondly from a several years ago."
"We booked our combo adventure package to the Athabasca Glacier through Brewster Travels. When we reached the information center, we were taken via a coach bus to board the Ice Explorer. Make sure to reach there early in the morning to beat the crowd. Our captain was 'Emma' and she was really knowledgeable about the glaciers and its surroundings. It is sad to learn that in about 75-100 years the glacier will melt and it gives us more reasons to take climate change seriously.Must visit when you are in Banff or Jasper. Lifetime experience :-)Tips: Wear sturdy shoes so that you could easily walk on the ice without slipping"
This beautiful and sad at the same time. I have walked on glaciers and landed on one in a helicopter but this the best one where you can almost drive right up to it. It is only a short walk to the carpark.The sad part is the markers showing where it has receded over the years. Previous comments saying it probably won't be here for our grandchildren is right. So enjoy it now and make sure you take a look at it.
Trek was made from top carpark through rocky terrain and small creek. Reached the hut at base of the Athabaska Glacier before heading out. About 2klm walk Snow flurries abounded while walking out to glacier and the wind was quite chilly. We were there in 1982 for our first visit and the marker is still there to show how much the ice has receded. Another great experience. Had another worthwhile walk and great to see the magnificence of the glacier again.
we went as a family we all enjoyed it my son had visited it before about 3years ago he could see how much it had changed in that time It seems a shame it has only about 100yrs left before it's all gone
The ice fields continues to shrink every day. As climate changes so does the earth. I am pretty sure having all that traffic on the glacier and all the vehicles in the area don't help. Go visit before they are gone.
"The place was busy, and the lunch was rushed and not that great. But, to get onto the glacier, the staff had you well organised and once up there was amazing to see such a natural element of our would earful earth"
The Snow mobile on the Columbian Icefield is a must do on your Rocky Mountains trip. From the information centre you are transported in a bus to where the snow mobiles leave. The snow mobiles are amazing. They take you safely to the glacier where you are able to walk around. One of the problems is the restricted area that you are allowed in and the second is the short time that you are there. I would have loved to spend much longer! It was a perfect day and we were able to sit on some chairs and enjoy the view.
First time I walk in a glacier. It is really amazing. They take you there in special buses and the drivers are knowledgeable and funny. You spend there 30 minutes snapping pictures and admiring the wonderful surroundings. It is really worth it.
Went south from Jasper and then north from Banff - would suggest the southward drive the best. Slower pace and more impressive. Go early in the day to get a parking places and on the Glacier walk trip. RV parking spaces and handicapped access available.
It is a bit sad to think that my great grandchildren would probably not be able to see this and all because the world governments will not accept that climate change is real.
"We visited a large Glacier in the Columbia Ice Fields north of Banff, Alberta, Canada as part of a eight day tour. It's hard to believe there are Glaciers that close to the US/Canada border. They stated it is about 7 km long and over 200 meters thick. A Big Chunk of Ice. They drive out onto the Glacier in large vehicles where you can exit and walk around in the bitter cold."
"th eColumbia Icefield feeds 5 glaciers - you should see the amount of snow and ice that has piled up - around 150 years back, the glacier was where the parking lots are now - it is sad to see it receding. The walk up to the glacier site will probably take you fifteen minutes if you are fit. However, keeping in mind the terrain - if you are not that fit, it may take you longer. But the view is worth it."
Climate change is real and can be seen here. One gets a clear view of the glacier and how much it has retreated over the years. The visitor center was crowded and the parking lot was packed. A great place to see.
The Icefield was part of a small package we put together and at first I thought it would be hokey and too touristy. The gathering building is new and they quickly shuttled us via bus to the glacier. Once there we boarded the huge snow-cat type bus for the interesting ride to the glacier. Steep up and down hills both ways. Good education on the glacier and the sad story of the continued shrinking of the glacier.Once on the glacier we had about 30 cold minutes. You are in a valley so the winds whip down over acres of ice and the temps are much lower than the parking lot. You are on a glacier - frozen water - aka ice. You will slip unless you are in some sort of solid hiking shoe or boot. The lady in the Coach sneakers learned the hard way.Great pics. Get them while there is still something to see.
"We stopped here on our journey through the Icefields Parkway and this place is amazing. You feel a sense of awe when you see the vastness of this icefield. It is such a beauty to behold, but it also gives you a sense of what is going on in the world when you see how much it has receded in the past 100+ years. We didn't go on the ice explorer, but I've heard that is a pretty cool experience and the visitor center is very nice as well."
"This was another personal highlight for me - the size of this glacier is incredible! When you get the Glacier bus onto the icefield you will really appreciate just how awesome this experience is. The guides are all helpful and informative, and make sure you get plenty of time to see around and take photos etc. Make sure and bring an empty bottle to fill with water!!I recommend you book in advance, to save time and money at the center!"
"This is a must stop on the Ice Field Parkway. You get a glimpse of the ice field but what you really get a good view of is the Athabasca Glacier. The Visitor Center will be crowded with buses and RV's, but if you've never seen a glacier this is the place to get some background. From the Visitor Center drive across the road over to the parking lot. You can walk about 500 yards uphill from a parking lot and get great views of the glacier. But if you have the time and want the experience there are glacier walking tours. I've walked and climbed on glaciers so we didn't do this here. But if you've never be on ice-do the tour. You'll get good information about the history of glaciers and their disappearance and of course a walk on the ice. The last time I was here was 1982. The ice has retreated almost 1/2 mile since then. Climate change is real and in case you have any doubts a visit to the Athabasca Glacier will change your mind."
We enjoyed our trip on the Columbia Ice Field. It was very cold so wrap up warm even though you are only on the ice for about 20 minutes.
"If this hadn't been part of our tour I would have skipped it. The ride on the Ice Explorer was fun, and our guide was great, but on the glacier it was just a bunch of people walking around a confined area of slush."
"We hiked to a viewpoint of the glacier in the photo, it was an excellent hike with tremendous photo opportunities,"
"This place is amazing, were else can you get this close to a glacier. We didn't spend any money and just did a few short walks around the area to get different views of the glacier. An awesome stop along the Ice Field Highway!"
An experience not to be missed !! Transport to the ice field where you can have a stroll and collect some of the melting water.
A rather commercialised trip but the only way they can manage the site. The glacier is receding so worth a trip. The drive onto glacier is fun and you can walk about but only on a small fenced area. Fascinating to see. Good value lunch at the base.
This starts at the glacier center. It feels like a congested airport gate. We bussed to the giant snow busses and drove up down up to a large icy parking lot. We had a half hour to take photos of each other then reverse the process. We were then bussed over to the glass walkway. They provide an audio tour and lots of exhibits on the open air walk to and from the glass walk it was kinda cool but with so many others souls it feels touristic.Brewster certainly has figured out how to capitalize on the people coming to the area
This is a must visit. You are taken by coach over to the pick up point (4 mins) where you transfer over to the large ice mobiles. It takes around 25 minutes to drive up to the glacier where you spend around 35 minutes on the ice. It is fascinating! Our guide was Stephan and he was very knowledgable.
"We had a great time at the Ice Field. We stopped for a few hours and enjoyed hot tea at the cafe, then went for a hike up the hill to see the glacier. It was great exercise and a wonderful history lesson. The Skywalk is just a short bus ride north and tickets are available for the shuttle at the Ice Field."
"This scenic area was #1 on our 25 day tour of Northwest US, Alaska & Southwest Canada. #2 & #3 were glacier in Alaska and whale watching. This area is not to be missed & tops Colorado and Wyoming Rockies."
Drive don't take tour bus . 115 km up the road from Jasper . You can hike right up to the toe . Must see !!! Stop at Athabaska falls too . Great day trip !
"The Athabasca Glacier in the Columbia Icefield is in the Canadian Rockies and pretty impressive. Our day there was overcast and cold, which kind of added to the mystique of actually walking on a glacier. Even riding the snow coach to get to the glacier was an interesting experience. Try it at least once."
One of the most AMAZING things I've ever experienced. It was a cool snowboarding ride up to the glacier tour guide was very knowledgeable. Sorry can't remember his name but I'd highly recommend doing this to anyone it's AWESOME
"We had so much fun in the Athabasca glacier, we also got to taste the glacier water. Highly recommended"
"One of person in our group has acrophobia problem (fear height), we don't want to leave her sit out when we go skywalk because no one in group were interested in skywalk program anyway. Very shock to be told we cannot have icewalk program alone, we are forced to buy combined tickets which including both icewalk and skywalk. On the other hand, you can buy skywalk program alone. This is so wrong. I don't know who authorized them to do so. Icefield is mother nature, should belongs to all people, they use it to force us to pay extra money and one hour time to an artificial built building which we totally do not want to go. Ruined interesting of the trip. Very bad experience and disappointed to Canada national park authority's management abilities."
To see the recession of the Icefields is unbelievable. The walk up is steep and the date markers remind us of how far and quickly they have receded. Wonderful and educational.
This was incredible to see. The entire Icefield Parkway is beautiful beyond your imagination and should not be missed. You will want to stop about every 20 feet to take pictures!
We stopped after hiking Parkers Ridge. The incline to the ice field is short but rocky and steep. Very glad we stopped would not want to miss. Take a light jacket or sweatshirt.
"This is an amazing experience. Being from the Prairies, I know snow and ice but standing on a glacier just below the ice field is amazing."
"We bought the ice field and skywalk bundle ticket. The staff was rude and my friend refused to go after that. The ice field was kinda dirty. But anyway, it's a life time experience and you have to try, I guess. All the drivers gave a little bit background education, talked a little bit stuff and made the whole 2 hours a fun trip."
"Very expensive glacier trip by Brewsters (they force you to buy a combo ticket for a bridge walk). Their web site videos must be very dated -- their videos make it look like you can walk around much of the glacier, and stay as long as you'd like. Not accurate. You are confined to a small area (with hundreds of other people, and only about 35 minutes to explore).It was interesting, but not as nice as they make it out to be."
"To get there you go to a rest stop with food and toilets, then take a bus to the ice cruiser which goes on to the glacier down and up a very steep road. Then you get to walk on the ice for about 15-20 minutes."
It was an included tour on our trip through the Canadian Rockies. It included a short time on the glacier but it was different and fun. The explanation by our guide Emma was very good. Recommended.
We were a bit disappointed that it was difficult to see the glacier or get close to it compared to in the past. Brewster's seem to be making you pay to get a good look at the ice field now. In the past you could get close without paying an extortionate amount to do the organised tour.
"Was not impressive. Can't really see more than from highway. Only reason I see to go is if you want to say you've been on glacier. They include the glass skywalk in the price. One positive on skywalk. One at Grand Canyon run by Indians won't allow cameras etc. This one does and you can go out as far as you want and come back off if don't want to walk all the way around. If you do go, be prepared for long waits during peak season. We were there by 9:30 and still had about 45 minute wait for our tour and wasn't really crowded. Lots of tour buses of course"
"Very well organised up to ice but lots of people walking around I stepped into a hole in the ice which was melting, some holes had signs but ithers did not. Best to stay in the group and dont do it by yourself as the ice field has plenty of deep cracks sorry to say it will only last another 30 years due to global warming, well worth a visit."
Stopped here for a rest period. We were on a time limit so we bypassed the interpretation Centre and did the walk to the glacier. It took about an 1/2 hour to reach the glacier but it was worth it. The tail is a bit rocky in areas but take your time and it's a great hike. Worth the time.
Very nice staff. Young people from all over the World are transporting and telling the story of one of the biggest attractions in the Rocky Mountains in quite an entertaining way.
Tough place for members of our party that have trouble with steps. No clear handicapped parking or drop off. Also now have to buy tickets bundled with glacier and skywalk. We didn't want to do skywalk so no bus tour. Beautiful place but not super accommodating to all.
Not a fan of this place. Way to expensive for 15 minutes on the ice. If you have to get on top of the glacier- would recommend taking one of he tours offered by adventure companies in the area. You'll have way more time on there and won't be surrounded by 100 other people trying to get the best shot.
This is an activity not to be missed. Slightly expensive but worth it. The special bus takes you right into the middle of the glacier and you spend at least 30 min there. I wish we had a greater area to explore.
"Glad I seen it, just to see how much the glacier is receding and a reminder to us all, we have to look after this place where we all live, but not something I would go to see again. I hated the crowd at the restaurant and tourists centre."
"A well organised attraction using very unusual transportation which I enjoyed very much.Ice field was very slippy,good boots required."
We enjoyed the visit to the glacier and the skywalk. The visit to the glacier was very touristy but the vehicles were cool! The views from the skywalk are spectacular.
"Not having done our homework beforehand, we arrived at the glacier center and almost made the massive mistake of buying one of the glacier bus tours, only to find out that the ice walk portion of the tour was at the driver's discretion and ""may not happen."" Luckily, we pressed the staff person and found out that twice daily, a separate company (a fantastic local company, not a huge corporation like Brewster), runs ice walks that actually involved guiding walking tours of the glacier and all the ice features on it. Under our awesome guide's supervision, we looked inside crevasses, drank glacier water, learned about all the features and larger ecosystem of the glacier, and had a tremendous up-close experience with this incredible natural feature, which is rapidly disappearing. Don't fall for the fancy marketing-- make sure you ask about the Althabasca Ice Walks!"
"Loved the Columbia Ice field tour. Our driver"" Super Kyle"" was Super! Was great with the crew on the bus of all ages. He filled us all in about the ice field and surrounding area."
Go to the centre (try to eat before or after because the food prices are very high for mediocre food) and see the free beautifully filmed 20 minute production. then drive to the parking place close to the glacier. The hike up to the glacier is short but hard if you not in reasonably good shape.
Went on a ice explorer tour... which was fun. The guide was funny and told us the story of the icefield. Overall it was a good experience. We booked the tour in town and arrived the information center early morning to reserve a time. It was better to go as early as possible so there were not many people there.
"We booked tickets from home before traveling - a bit nerve wracking since you can only pick a time for the trip once in the Banff National Park. Fortunately we got the time we wanted but it felt frustrating not to be able to pre-book times when you pay. Parking at the Columbia Icefields centre was a nightmare and took best part of 20 minutes to find a space - this was possibly due to us choosing a 2pm slot. The trip to the glacier was well organised and the guide knowledgeable and amusing. The Glacier bus is something in its own right. We were very lucky with the weather and all enjoyed the chance to stand on a glacier - really get to appreciate the scale and our boys (9 and 12) found the experience brilliant. The skywalk on the other hand was a disappointment - we did it because you get the skywalk with the glacier trip. Yes the structure is an interesting piece of engineering but it felt like an unnecessary detour and standing on a glass floor isn't that exciting. Yes there are good views - but there are good views on the whole drive along the icefield parkway. Would we go again - No, it was expensive and its sort of a ""ticked"" that box type of thing really. Definitely would not do just the skywalk - you could stop in the car park and look at the views for free! (if you can find a space)."
Stopped by on the way to JAsper Park and I'm very glad we did. It is an amazing experience to be so close (almost on top) of a glacier. You can hike up to a designated point and be amazed by nature. There is an all day Columbia excursion that I would like to do on another occasion. The excursion actually takes you onto the ice. It is a must see!
"We were visiting the Icefield Center and would like to have an up close view of the glacier. As we had only limited time and had to drive to Calgary after the excursion (for which we were assigned a 2:30pm departure time), so we asked to but tickets only for the Glacier Adventure but not the Skywalk. The ticket officer told us that the tickets are only sold as a package and we have no choice to buy only ticket for Glacier but not the Skywalk (it costs $30 to see only the Skywalk) - unless we forfeit the tickets to Skywalk. I feel this very unreasonable. We later visited Skywalk as we did not want to waste the money paid for it, however, after visiting the Skywalk, we found the views from there are similar to those in many other places along Icefield Parkway. Why should we spend extra $$ for it? Visiting the Athabasca Glacier was a great and unique experience. I would give it a 5 star if we were not forced to buy the Skywalk tickets."
Been here twice. Couldn't get excited about it. The boys who drive the buses are amusing. I wouldn't recommend it .
We took the adventures tour of the Athabasca glacier and the skywalk. It was raining but the glacier tour was still amazing. Taking the ice tracker out to the glacier is a life memory you should not miss. The sky walk is a must too. Walking on that glass skywalk is a bucket list item too. Don't miss it.
This was one of the highlights of our trip to Canada - make sure you try the glacier walk - a stunning way to take in the incredible scenery around you. The entire journey from Jasper to Banff is jaw-dropping!
"I've been to a few and they aren't much different. That said, it is still a breathtaking sight every time. Take a tour and walk on the glacier. Look at all the different colors in the ice and know that it may not be there long enough for our children to see one."
The glass bottom walkway is incredible. unable to walk on the glacier unless you pay for a tour. very Impressive.
We did a short walk up to a glacier toe about a long stone's throw away. To get on the glacier toe you can either hire a guide ($100/person) to walk on from the end of the hike or take a specialized bus onto the toe of the glacier (not the actual big glacier at the very top). The bus was well advertised but a bit of a tourist trap as the bus only gets you a bit further and you have to pay for the bus and skywalk (overrated) package together (~$80). Tip: there's only one bathroom in the parking lot closest to the glacier and always had a line outside.
"Doesn't get much prettier than this drive,Can't get in hurry when driving,backs up with rv's.start early less traffic"
"I visited the area on August 27th and the views were spectacular! One activity that I recommend trying is the Glacier Icewalk where they take you on a massive Ice Explorer and you get to walk on the Athabasca Glacier. The experience was worth every penny. The staff is amazing and they inform you to the best of their ability about any question you have. One I would particularly like to point out is Sandra, a 24 year old tour guide. She operated the Ice Explorer and was the best tour guide I have ever had a chance to speak with. Though the activities were outstanding, the food on the second level was not amazing. Overall I would recommend anyone whether it be families of small children or a couple on vacation to come here and check everything out."
We anticipated visiting a glacier for so long and this did not disappoint us in any way. Crowded beyond belief but we were looked after very well. The local guides explained everything very well. Mind you we later visited glaciers in Alaska and this one then paled a bit. But the experience was still worthwhile.
"I was nervous about going on a glacier, but it was well worthwhile and totally safe. We transferred from our coach (I was on a tour) onto the local bus and then onto an amazing bus with 5 foot tyres designed to traverse the glacier. The driver and narrator was a wonderful young man who made our trip special. He was so enthusiastic and funny and really made the whole experience. And to think he must do that trip so many times a day and still stay so enthusiastic! A great experience, not to be missed if you are in the area. Highly recommended."
One of the most scenic drives I've been on anywhere in the world! The jaw dropping beautiful scenery awed us and we got some fantastic photos.
"We pulled off to the parking lot below the interpretive centre and walked up as far as you can independently. It was a nice walk, didn't take too long and there was no cost for this. I have always just drove by as I assumed there was a cost associated with getting close. Was pretty cool to see how the ice field receded over the years with the markers that are in place!"
"I visited Alberta canada in 2014, I went to both jasper and banff national parks, this attraction was just amazing. We went up a literal mountain, when we got up there the cold was a slap in the face it was June yet it felt like December. The snow and ice felt like a different world, must have been about 10F the view was spectacular and there was a stream which I took water from it was crisp and refreshing not everyday you get water from a glacier. The tour guides were friendly would definitely go again"
"Impressive place! See how the glacier went back in the past decades. Park your car at the foot of the glacier and go for a walk within the marked area. Avoid all outrageously expensive tours and those buses that pollute the glacier. Avoid also the skywalk, that is far away from the centre and you need to take a bus to get there while it gives you no better view than what you can see on your own."
Stopped here to take the Ice Explorer up onto the Athabaskan glacier. Travelled with a tour group and the slow lumbering vehicle was fun as it made its way onto the ice. The guide provided good commentary and fun banter and we alighted and spent about 30 minutes on the ice before returning. Remember that it will be a colder up there so bring a warm jacket.
"After waking to rain headed straight to Icefield Discovery Centre (1hour drive from Jasper) to find car park already busy. Had pre-booked tickets so straightforward process, heading straight to coaches to transfer to Sno-coach. Unfortunately still raining and really cold which added to the atmosphere of this moon-like terrain. Had great bus driver/guide (Bruce) who was very informative and entertaining at the same time. Extremely slippy when we got off the coach but what an experience- not to be missed. From here you go to the Skywalk which has been really well designed but is not for anyone with vertigo!! Buses pick up every 10/15 mins back to car parks so really well organised. Only downside is how busy the cafe was when we got back (around 12.30pm) so made lunch in the car. Still worth the visit."
"We drove through the the Icefields and stopped to do the Skywalk and look at Athabasca Glacier.The skywalk is great, but remember you need to drive past it to the visitors centre 6 kms down the road and get a shuttle back as there is no parking. It is all included in your ticket"
"We enjoyed our tour guide and his silly jokes. The field was crowded, but we were still able to drink the water and get some good photos."
"We drove this in august, but did see some snow flurries there! Really beautiful drive, so many mountains and you can hike to GLACIER! You can see many more of them there too, along with quite a few waterfalls."
The Columbia Ice Field is a very impressive place to to see! Busy place but absolutely worth the stop. We did the short but steep hike and really enjoyed the views. Also a spectacular view from the info centre.
"I visited the Athabasca glacier 55 years ago when I was 13 years old and it was sad to see how much the glacier has receded over the years. Despite this, the glacier it is a most wonderful site. We did an icewalk tour which was a most incredible experience (see my review). As well, we stayed in the RV campground/parking lot, across the road for three nights. This 'campground' during the daytime is simply a parking lot, but a few RVers stay overnight - about 12 each of the three nights that we were there. Self-registration is $15.70; cash or credit card. It is unserviced but is next to the Icefields Discovery Centre which has a cafeteria, restaurant, washrooms (no showers), and a Parks Canada Information booth with free WiFi. There is no cell phone coverage in the area, but there are pay phones. The views of the Athabasca glacier are spectacular - the glacier is across the road!!!"
"We did not have time to stop and go up the Glacier this time, However we did it a few years ago. It was very neat to be able to drive on the glacier and better yet you actually get to get off the bus and stand on the glacier! Would highly recommend to do this at least once."
"My son in and I went on a little holiday together and this was one of the excursions that we did. It was all right. The vehicle and is size egged what was very interesting. Walking on the Glacier was neat, but not what I had expected. Very cold, so be sure to bring a sweater and good shoes"
"The Columbia Ice Field glacier and Ice Bridge were unique experiences that anyone visiting Banff and Jasper National Parks would enjoy. About a 2 1/2 hour drive from Banff on Canada's Ice Highway through stunning vistas, the Ice Field experience takes you out on the glacier for a short walk and photo op. You can also visit the ice bridge which overlooks the Athabasca River."
Well worth visiting. We walked up from the car park which was interesting as you see the extent to which the glacier has receded in the last 20 years or so. If you want to walk on the glacier you need to book a guided walk. Worth doing if you're fit enough.
"This is a major tourist draw on the Icefields Highway, so you need to expect hoards of tourists. But, it is a unique experience which you will not find elsewhere, so you just have to live with the crowds. But, once you get out on the glacier, you feel the power of nature and the enormity of change over the last 150 years, when this glacier has melted some 300 meters lower. The Skywalk is also unique and a great new addition to the experience."
"They seriously need more outhouses here! The line up to use the one outhouse was ridiculous. The walk up to the glacier is kind of hard if you are not in great shape. It takes awhile to visit the glacier, by the time you find somewhere to park and walk up, so set aside enough time in your itinerary."
"I first viewed these glaciers 45 years ago and about once every decade since. Sad to see how much they have receded. I purchased the Jasper Explorer package online back in May through Brewster and had wanted to do all the tours when I was in the Rockies in May - before the onslaught of tourists arrived. Was only able to do the Maligne Lake boat tour in May as, the day I was to travel the Icefield Parkway, it was snowing heavily and I didn't want to risk the drive as had to be in Vancouver the following day. So... I did the Glacier tours when I was back there in August (when the place was over-run with tourists).Glad I did the Glacier Adventure tour on the big bus but it was spoiled a bit by the high # of tourists, the small patch of ice you are actually allowed on to & how everyone else was jostling around to get their ""selfie"" photos instead of actually taking in the incredible view! The experience was unique and the bus drivers were very informative. The Glacier Sky Walk was overrated and a disappointment. I DO recommend stopping and doing some of the hiking trails along the Icefield Parkway though as you will see some spectacular scenery!!"
We love beautiful road trips and this has just gone towards the top of the list. The drive from Jasper to Canmore is absolutely gorgeous with great roads and stops. Well worth getting there. I don't even ride motorcycles but was wishing I had one for this run!
"It is possible to walk towards the toe of the glacier, but due to fact that the glacier is melting year by year it is not possible to walk onto it anymore. It seems one can go there by special trucks or buses."
"Just spent 10 amazing days in the Canadian Rockies and everything else was so beautiful and the people were so nice (except for the employees here-- all of them!!) The entire ""adventure"" was spent waiting and listening to boring facts about the ice. Someone else mentioned in a review that this would be a good stop if you have never seen snow before. Other than that it is a waste. One particularly disturbing thing that happened is that our ice glacier driver left a man and his son on the glacier and refused to let them on the bus with the rest of his family because he got back with his 5 year old son a couple minutes late. His family pleaded with the phony driver to let them on the bus (they were only a few steps away) and she refused, even after the man fell on the ice trying to get to the bus. Truly disturbing and poor customer service. The driver who took us to the tour was a strange, weird guy cracking odd jokes and he was totally unprofessional, as was the woman in the center who insisted we could not get on an earlier time slot, even though our time slot seemed completely empty. My family wished we skipped this stop altogether. The rest of the Canadian Rockies were awesome?"
"The glacier has receded dramatically
It's worth going to see. But it used to be
all the way to the highway not that long ago
Too bad"
There are no highways in this beautiful country that come close to this 4 hr drive on a sunny day. I have traveled across all reaches and while there are many beautiful sights nothing compares to the ice fields highway.
Have been to the glacier on three different occasions. It is crazy to see how much it has receded since the first visit in 1992. Each time we go it is noticeably smaller. If you can afford it take the tour onto the ice. If not the walk isn't challenging and affords a view of the glacier up close. For those that haven't had the opportunity to walk a glacier take the opportunity. I bet 25 years from now visiting this site will be a vastly different experience.
"While I have seen glaciers quite a few times, this was my first opportunity to walk on one. How exciting! You get tickets at The visitor center, and then you are taken out to the glacier on this special vehicle built just for this experience. It was very, very busy and the tickets are times so that if you arrive at 1 pm, you might not get to go out on the glacier until 3 pm. So go early especially if you have any time deadlines. You really are only out on the glacier, out of the vehicle, for about 15 minutes. As you would expect, it was very cold and very, very slippery. So dress accordingly."
"Parking is an issue here, and be prepared for a moderate, 30-minute hike, but more stunning views are in store for those that get out of their cars."
We highly recommend this tour. Book the 9 am tour or just show up early. It was amazing and our group was very small so easy to get great pictures. After 10 the herds of people come and it is crazy! Bring a water bottle to fill up with some glacier water. Also bring a snack or picnic lunch because the restaurant was packed and didn't look too good.
"There really is nothing good about this unless you have never seen snow. It is crowded, expensive, slow, and pretty weak overall. It sounds good - ""walk on a glacier"", but isn't. There is beautiful scenery everywhere. Skip this and see the good stuff."
We stopped at the car park near the toe of the icefield and walked to the viewpoint. The buses that go on the icefield are expensive and probably not worth it (done it many years previously). Sad to see it receding so much.
"What a great activity. And Ness was delightful. Informative, funny and thoroughly professional. We enjoyed the commentary and the opportunity to walk on a glacier. Troubled though about the human impact on the glacier."
"Gotta get to this place before it all melts away. Things to do.. hike up big moraine (hill), be sad at the markers showing how far the glacier has retreated, get to the cut off point and look at people with tons of money who got to walk on the ice. build an inukshuk with pebbles, gawk at the river of glacial water melting as you stand there. wander down to the lake that's formed and skip stones on the surface of this glacial pond. Awesome!!!!!"
My wife and I could not capture the beauty in pictures so took video to better relate what we saw to our friends at home. The entire region is beautiful and well worth driving the entire stretch of highway.
"Though the weather was overcast and a little showery this was a wonderful experience. Phil our guide for the two and a half hour walk onto Athabasca Glacier was fantastic. He stopped frequently to tell us interesting facts about the glacier and checking we were warm enough and felt comfortable at the pace and stability on the ice. Coming from Brisbane we did not have the right attire but Sundog have plenty of waterproof outer wear, boots, gloves and crampons for those on the walk. We are glad we did the walk rather than the bus trip as it gave us a greater appreciation and knowledge of the glacier.Thanks so much Sundog."
this place is unbelievable! who'da thunk i'd be walking on a glacier? this is a once in a lifetime experience that you don't want to miss out on if you are able to go. do not bypass this place if you are in jasper!
"We arrived on our tour bus and boarded another bus for the 4 minute ride to the snow-coach. Jamie our bus driver was very entertaining, but was topped by Super Kyle, the snow-coach driver! Our short ride to the Columbia Icefield was filled with laughter as was the return ride. The experience was a highlight of our 10 day Canadian Rockies tour."
Stopped off for lunch and walk on the glacier. Fantastic so memorable the views all along the icefield parkway are stunning. Unforgettable scenery.
"Great experience. With a big bus we drove on the icefield. Walk a round on the ice but very slipery.
Touristic, it is a coming and going of busses"
"The Glacier that feeds the West. The parking lot is free with a park pass. One can park at the Icefield Hotel and sign up for glacier tours or the walk way. We decided to just do the hike up. Prepare for wind, rain, snow, warm weather, as we encountered all. The Glacier is visible with Athabasca river flowing freely. Prepare to build a rock man. Worth the trip for the fresh air, and breathtaking views."
We made the trip from Jasper to the Icefields one day which is already a memorable drive. We made sure we arrived early around 10 am to avoid the rush of tourist busses. We prebooked a tour with an icefield explorer which initially took approx 3 hours in combination with the glass floor experience. Since we were with two older kids we thought 3 hours was the max but in the end we would have liked to take a longer hike over the glacier. Mind you we had a great sunny day which made hiking the glacier a bit easier.
I was shocked at the number of tourists and how the park has commercialized the ice fields. What should be a place of natural beauty is now several large car parks and a large building that sells tickets to take buses out on the glacier. At any point in time you can see 2 or 3 buses driving on the glacier and another half dozen parked high on the glacier. There are six flags length lines of tourists waiting to buy tickets for the bus. Very sad.
Nice experience. A bit over crowded. Having been on the great Mendenhall Glacier in Alaska this was a bit underwhelming.
Went up with Brewster up onto the glacier and it was amazing! It was foggy but it really added to the beauty of the glacier and the ones around it. Our guide (Super Kyle) was really nice and quite funny!
"I was disappointed with this tour. Not the guide, just the glacier and the roped off ice field (frozen parking lot) that we walked around for 20 minutes. I wouldn't recommend this attraction."
"We stayed over at the hotel and booked on the first trip of the day at 9am. Take a bottle so you can fill up with glacier water. Think about your footwear - it was VERY slippery at that time in the morning. The journey up in very informative and quite exciting. Emma drove us to the glacier and she was very well spoken, interesting and funny! We also did the skywalk - you get back on the coach and are taken there. You can stay as little or as long as you wish because the coach leaves every 15 minutes. Definitely worth doing but go early!"
"The glacier, and how it has retreated, is a interesting thing to see. We walked up and around with the kids. If you want more access, you should take a tour. There is only one outhouse (long lines during busy season) so stop for a bathroom break first."
Having visited the glaciers in Patagonia the Columbia Ice Field was a bit of a let down as you are quite far from the foot of the glacier.
"The Ice Field tour is amazing and Brewster tours' staff is completely professional, pleasant and have a great sense of humour. My daughter & I were in the back of the bus going down a very steep hill and the driver was always reassuring the passengers while educating them on the Ice Field creation. We brought our water bottles to collect glacier water and took dozens of photos. I thought we were just going to stand around on some ice but the view, the history, everything - we loved every minute of it."
"We took the tour up to the ice fields. It was such a unique experience. The vehicle you ride up in is make for this kind of trip.
You can even fill up your water with the glacier runoff.
We really enjoyed it."
We planned to visit but the car park was already over full. The glacier looks a dull grey rather than white & blue. Went to Edith Cavell glacier instead but you need a car.
the journey here was beautiful with amazing views of mountains and glaciers. when we arrived the sun glistened on the ice and the blue was gorgeous. Very busy on the ice
Even if you don't want to walk on the glacier you have to stop here! The view from the info center is simply amazing!
Another Rocky Mountain must-see. It reveals the story of the receding glaciers over time and makes you reconsider your doubt of global warming.
Well organized. Vehicles used were unique. Guides were very knowledgeable. A unique experience standing on a glacier. The ice center gas all we needed. A nice way to spend a few hours.
"We walked to the toe of the glacier, nice easy hike and was neat view. Wish we could have gotten closer to the glacier."
"The Ice Field Parkway extends from Lake Louise to Jasper, and is full of wonderful views of mountains, rivers, lakes, waterfalls, wildlife and of course, the Columbia Ice Field. The ice field is about 2/3 of the way....a pretty long way to do up and back in the same day, so if is usally done in conjunction with an overnight in Jasper, and then drive back south the next day.The ice field can be seen from the parkway, or from the visitors center, or through various hikes, but many people book the tour which drives out on the glacier, and you can get out for a while and walk on the glacier. I have done that, and it is ok. Bare in mind during the busy season you may have to wait a couple of hours for the next tour with openings. It is also possible to book in advance. There are 3 glacier areas, one on the mountain to the left, one on the mountain to the right, and the glacier in the valley between them. The tour goes out on the glacier in the valley.This is a fairly unique experience....so go do it!"
My husband and I had a cool experienced in this place first the superb view then riding the huge vehicle with cool tires. The tour guide had a sense of humor so we had fun in our tour.
"My wife and I had an awesome day at the icefields and thoroughly enjoyed the experiences that it offers. If you can, get there early as the car park and the whole area get very busy very suddenly. We went out on to the Athbasca Glacier in one of the Ice Explorer vehicles with an excellent guide called Ness. Ness was incredibly friendly whilst also demonstrating her wide range of knowledge about the area, she really made the whole experience very enjoyable. We went on to the SkyWalk and as somebody that is not fond of heights this wasn't quite as enjoyable but there was lots of information and there were some brilliant views across the canyon below. A great day out."
"Its a really good experience, it can take some time to visit because of the crowds, but its worth the effort. You will need to take very warm clothing and non-slip shoes, take plenty of shots with your camera as the time goes very quickly"
I had read a prior review mentioning that you get in one line to go to the next line to travel to the next line. And they are right.This activity takes time. Plan for 2 hours minimum. We took 3 I think. Even when you get to the buses that take you to the glacier - those things are like farm tractors - ~2 miles per hour (sorry - I don't know the metric conversion).And you're only payment options are either the sky walk by itself. Or the glacier + sky walk combined. You can't do just the glacier. And by way of disclaimer - I'm not a 'tour-type' girl nor is my husband.But this is a must-do. Would I do it again? Probably not. But should you do it once? 100% yes.Oh - the sky walk was neater than I thought it'd be. And look to take a good picture of it when the bus is taking you back and you turn around and are looking back at it. You can get a nice shot of it jutting out off the cliff.
"There are a few places in the world to see glaciers, but most are melting, so it's worth a stop and checking out. The Columbia Ice Field center is very nice, complete with a cafe and bathrooms. There are 2 parking lots....one by the center and one down by the glacier with only one ""outhouse"" type toilet and quite a long line, so I recommend taking care of any needs in the center, then drive down to the glacier. Be prepared for a bit of a walk, the glacier has melted back some. There are 3 ways to go see it....hire a guide for a hike up the glacier, ride the big monster bus, or walk up to it by yourself. People walking up to it on their own had to cross a rope at some point if they wanted to actually put their feet onto the glacier itself. Once you cross the rope, you would need crampons, and a lot of care as there are crevasses in the ice one could fall into and never be seen again."
"The Icefields parkway is a fabulous drive. The Icefields visitor centre where you take the snowcoach onto the glacier is just soooo busy and commercial we d never stop here again. But as I say the drive itself is amazing, with many stopping points/trails etc."
Enjoyed both the glacier explorer tour and the separate glacier guided hike. Lots of fun and well organised!
"Plan to spend 3+ hours here is what I'm told. We visited the tourist center. It was very very crowded and ultimately we decided to just take some photos and move on. My view is that this attraction is overcrowded. I won't be going back . Would be cool, but not worth the crowds and the price . There are so many other things to do in Banff and Jasper I would recommend skipping it."
"Gorgeous place. The terrain is so different then what we are used to in the mountains. It gets busy quickly, so go early!"
"There are 2 main parts to the visit, the trip to the glacier, and the visit to the Skywalk. Both were very busy, and the Skywalk could have done with more staff at the platform as almost everyone was taking selfies and elbowing people out of the way. It is interesting that they entrust the ice machines to University Students. The food options in the Centre were poor to say the least."
"This place blew my mind - and our hair haha!So cool to see the regression of this beauty, and to read about its history.At the time of this review, access to the toe of the glacier was restricted as a large river runoff and lake had developed at the base."
Started off with a tour photograph with a fantastic view as background. Reception area has plenty of washrooms and facilities. Taken by bus to RV point and then into 6 wheel drive large snow Mobile's. Great views on way to top of glazier. On arrival at glazier the views were breathtaking. The glaziers are absolutely great. Taken back to reception area. Staff on the bus and snow mobile were very informative. Highly recommended.
If you have made the effort to get to rage Canadian Rockies you really must do this. Walking on the glacier is a once off experience. It is also an experience that won't last forever. This glacier is receding and will not last forever. The skywalk experience is a spectacular way to experience the vastness of the Rockies. The photos just do not start to do it justice.
The beauty and majesty of this drive is beyond words. It goes on forever. Such beauty and diversity. Everyone is awestruck the entire time.
"Such a stunning vista from all directions but only had 10minutes on the glacier with the rest of the time spent on the Ice Explorer. We saw bighorn sheep and I wished we could've stopped to take photos but we were on a schedule. Nevertheless it was lovely being up on the glacier walking around, do take some warm gear as it still gets cold here even if you're up there for a short time only."
"Second time visiting the ice fields. The experience is great, and well worth doing. But the ammount of people EVERYWHERE - in the visitor centre, in the gift shop, on the glacier, in the parking lot was nuts this time. I'm glad business is good, but it definately felt very crowded. It is also hard to not think of the environmental impact of all of us walking around on the glacier, the trucks etc. It's an amazing experience, but definitely something to think about."
We took the Ice Explorer to the middle of the Athabasca Glacier. We were able to get out and walk on the Glacier for about 20 minutes which was more than enough time. It was a bit crowded at that time. A great suggestion is to bring trekking poles. It is slippery and the poles helped me. I was happy to have them.
"Beautiful scene:a bit cloudy skies but stunning snow and glaciers on all sides.We walked the short trail to the ""toe"" of Athabasca Glacier. It got colder as we got closer to the glacier itself. So dress in layers.The elevation at the beginning is 6200 feet, so for those not used it, the walk was a bit of work. But just took our time and even 70 year old New Englanders made it without trouble.There are signs along the trail showing where the glacier was in different years, 1982 for instance. It is really interesting to see how much it has melted. Glad we got to see it."
"There are two options to walk on the glacier at the Columbia Ice Field. One is to buy a ticket, ride a shuttle to the ice vehicles, then ride the Ice Explorer vehicles up onto the glacier. On the glacier, you get off the Ice Explorer vehicle and walk around for 15-30 minutes. The second option is to drive to a parking spot across the road from the Columbia Icefield Visitor Center, then hike about 500 yards/meters uphill to the glacier. We did the former and did not do the latter. From the visitor center you can see both options and decide, and you can also drive to the parking spot to better view the trail difficulty for the second option. Or, you can do both.Make sure you read the website regarding the dangers of walking on a glacier. You must stay within the boundaries the park has marked safe. http://www.pc.gc.ca/eng/pn-np/ab/jasper/activ/explore-interets/glacier-athabasca.aspxIf you are considering buying a ticket, you should review your plans, as there are combination packages that may save you some money. For example, You can buy a ticket to go only on the Glacier Skywalk. However, if you buy a ticket to go onto the glacier via the shuttle and Ice Explorer vehicle, that ticket includes the Glacier Skywalk. There is no option to buy a ticket only for the Ice Explorer vehicle trip. So decide what you are going to do before you buy. There are other optional combinations with boat and gondola rides in Banff and Jasper.We arrived about 10:45 am on Wednesday 17 August and were able get two tickets for the 11:45 am Ice Explorer Option.I write these reviews to help other travelers. If you find this review helpful, please let me know so that I continue to write them. Thank you."
"My family enjoyed the visit to the Columbia Ice Field. We took the ice explorer to the glacier and walked around for a bit... it appeared the area that is safe to walk is smaller then the last time I was there... perhaps the time of year. It is a bit sad to see how far the ice receded over the years. I am glad I was able to take my family to see it before global warming does what it does. Our tickets included the glass walkway, which extends out over the highway about 1 km above the ground. It is fun watching people nervously walk on the glass floor. Overall, a good experience."
"This tour is 45 minutes at the most on a glacier. Bring a large water bottle to fill up with delicious fresh water! Wear hiking boots or sneakers and a warm jacket. Ness was so funny as the driver, playing Ice Ice Baby, bringing the house down, and is very witty and charming, very good diplomatic skills and will make a first rate diplomat. Move over Treaudeaux, Canada's got talent! Liz, Brooklyn"
"Camped in tent only camp ground had an amazing site and view of the ice fields.
Next morning had a great hike up to the toe from the far parking lot."
"Well organized adventure on ice glacier! Sam, our guide, gave wonderful info concerning event! Great pictures!"
This was a spectacular stop. The ice field is amazing and shrinking. We had a hot lunch and saw some incredible photos in the lower level of the reception area.
"This is my fourth visit to the Icefield, but my first time to take the tour up to the glacier. Definitely a tour worth taking. We did it in combination with the Skywalk. The entire experience took about 3 hours. Our tour guides were very informative and the time we were allowed at the glacier was just about perfect. Would definitely recommend."
"We took the Athabasca Ice Fields walk in the afternoon when we we staying in Jasper area and glad we did. Many years ago I had taken a great hike on a glacier in Glacier Ntl Park so I thought it would be similar to that but it wasn't . This glacier is very crusty on the top and doesn't have the crevices like the one I hiked before. This felt safer than the prior one. It was interesting to see the rivers flowing down the glacier making designs in the ice similar to what one sees in places like Maligne Canyon. There were other interesting things to see such as the ice cave and a huge hole (moulin) with water flowing into it. We much preferred walking on the ice than taking the cat up and standing in the one limited area those folks were limited to. Information was shared on the tour but it would have been nice to have even more information about the glacier and the geology of the area than what was given. As a side note this company will provide hats, gloves, jackets and even boots if you need them. It does get windy up on the glacier but just regular hiking slacks were fine and 2 layers of wick aways and a wind jacket with hat and gloves worked fine. Enjoy!"
We visited Columbia Ice Field area but did not take any tours. Just seeing all the glaciers from the highway and the visitor center was an exhilarating experience. This area is a definite must-see.
"You spend 20 minutes on the glacier but awesome to see how vast it is ! We bought the Ultimate explorer pass at 150$ for the Comumbia icefield, the skywalk, Banff Gondola and Lake Cruise (Maligne OR Minnewanka)"
"Visited on route from Jasper to Lake Louise. Arrived at 12.30 next available time slot was 3.30pm!! Waited around for our time but couldn't get near the coffee shop or the restaurant, it was heaving with hundreds of people. I think half of China and Japan were there!! In hindsight we should have booked our tickets in Jasper and arrived half an hour before our time but no one tells you. The whole trip takes about 3 hours so allow plenty of time. You visit the Glacier, which a great experience then you are taken to the glass skywalk; however there is no option to do either or, you have to buy a ticket for both even if you don't want to go to the skywalk. Our daughters were nervous visiting the Skywalk so declined going. It's a con if you ask me at CAD$80 each, it's a lot of money when over an hour is spent queuing for various buses."
I don't know how many 'wows' were uttered along this route from Jasper to Banff. Too many to count but each one was justified. A spectacular road to drive along. Plenty of places to stop and take photos.
Informative bus guides Ness and Jamie were funny and energetic!! Columbia Ice Fields is a must see and the journey up there is a mind blowing ride and is just as steep as the San Fransisco street (which is the steepest street in all of the Americas!)
A must see when travelling between Banff and Jasper. My husband and I stopped and got out of our vehicle and took several pictures along the journey.
"We went to the Columbia Ice Fields as part of a tour, so we didn't have to wait in the long lines for tickets, so plan ahead if you want to experience walking on a glacier. Our tour took us directly to the Ice Explorer/snowcoach and we boarded fairly promptly. It was a short ride up the glacier to where we got out and walked around the glacier within a fenced off area. It was very crowded but we enjoyed our time on the glacier. Our driver and guide was Ness - she was delightful, witty and very knowledgeable about the area, the glacier and answered any questions we had.If you go, be sure to plan ahead - go early in the morning before the throngs descend upon it, but it was a good time. Because it was part of our tour, I don't know what the price per ticket was.I am concerned about how eco-friendly the whole process of driving on the glacier is, cutting roads thru the moraine, etc."
The glacier has greatly receded since my first visit in 1982. Unable to walk on glacier due to melt water creek across the glacier toe - unless a tour is purchased. The hike was not as much fun as previous years but a learning experience for all.
"It was very interesting driving on to the ice field in these huge vehicles with great tires. Getting out and walking around on the ice, A truly great experience."
"We took Canadian Ice Explore to Columbia Ice Field, it was very memorable experience. The driver made it fun and educational, we got to walk on Glacier and see the beautiful view we may not have much longer on earth..."
"Wonderful places to along the Columbia Ice Field to stop and visit!!. You have to take the time to go thru the Ice Fields, there are many glaciers to stop and see along the drive. Spectacular views of the Canadian Rockies.. If you have the time and energy hike up to Athabasca Falls. Short 20 minutes hike and puts you right in front of the glacier."
"The icefield is well-known and a 'must-see' for anyone travelling this way. But I found it cold, too crowded and not that interesting, unless one likes to stand on blocks of ice with little to see apart from other visitors. Perhaps it was a bad time to go in the middle of summer. The information/gift office was too crowded. However, the guides that drive you up to the icefield in special transporters were excellent."
Though enjoyable to see I was a little dissapointed as I actually expected it to be a bigger Ice Field and be able to walk around a larger area. The drivers which took us from pick up to drop off to go on the big ice buses were great at explaining things and had a great sense of humour. Once you get out there you are limited to where you go due to the fact that not everywhere is secure. Some great shots can be taken and worth while but again very crowded and you had to watch where you were walking as some areas had some melting happening and these were clearly marked with Caution signs for the public - yet many failed to see them!!!!
This is a truly unique experience. My grandson felt it was the highlight of our trip(after rafting). Gets really crowded in summer. We stayed at glacier view lodge which allowed us to arrive late and do Skywalk the next day. Expensive but worth it.
"Plan your Banff/Jasper trip a little in advance. If you are going to do the Brewster excursions, buy the package and save a big chunk of money. Book your times early to avoid a two hour wait. ***BRING SOME LUNCH***The restaurant buffet is by reservation only, the hot food cafeteria line is s 30 minute wait, and it is way overcrowded and even more over priced. $4 for a little, cup of so-so coffee. The glacier tour is really good though and worth the trip."
"We went by Brewster's Coach from Jasper Park Lodge on the way to Lake Louise and thoroughly enjoyed the trip which was made special by Jarrod, our driver who let us stop at various beauty spots along the way and provided us with an informative commentary. When we arrived, we were taken by snow vehicle driven by Andrew who was also very entertaining, up to the Icefields where we got out and walked around for a while. We could fill our bottles with pure water from the glacier. It was a little slippery so you had to watch your step. Sensible shoes are a must!"
"Truly a gorgeous spot and glacier. Skip the icefield center and snocoach, they're just after your $. We managed to get on a guided icewalk, but did book way ahead. Hiking up the glacier was a wonderful experience, and the bus looked silly for those of us hiking. I can't believe they allow that. Doesn't seem very eco-friendly. There are also a few hiking trails nearby that give a great view."
"Magnificent views around every corner - soaring peaks, gorgeous turquoise blue river, Peyto Lake, the Athabaska Glacier... one of the most spectacular highways I have ever driven."
"Great great great!! The best experience you could have. Its not going to be around for always so needs to be done. The trucks that take you on the Icefield are huge and magnificent. The tyres were bigger than me at 5' 1""."
"We drove through this area in August, so there wasn't much ice to see. There is a glacier on the mountain side, however if you've ever been to Alaska this would write a very poor second. We were driving this way anyway, so the scenery was pretty. However we passed on the ice field tour."
This will make you think what has been happening for thousands of years. It is a one time experience and it is done in a very civilised manner
"A tourist hot spot if you are travelling down the Icefields Parkway.
Quite expensive if you want to go out on the glacier in the Sno Coach but it has to be done! Standing on metres of ice is quite awesome."
"Despite a rainy and cold day, we thoroughly enjoyed taking the bus to the Columbia Ice Field where we boarded a huge ""ice machine"" which drove onto the glacier. We were given time to exit the vehicle to walk on the glacier. Dress warmly and be sure to wear shoes that give you some traction as the glacier is extremely slippery! Our driver was very informative about the glacier and made the visit that much more interesting."
don't miss this one! wonderful trip on the glacier. our driver was a young guy (18) who drove a huge monster vehicle on the glacier. very cold but worth every moment
Drive Jasper to Banff (or the other way) you will see breathtaking scenery every turn! It's spectacular! There are many glaciers but Columbia Ice field is right there approx 3km from the road. For those who cant get to hike to a glacier this place has vehicles to take you onto the ice field. It is extremely popular and you pay for the privilege. Huge car park and visitor centre caters for this tour mecca.Great place to stop and view ice field and the magnificent mountain range from the centre for FREE or go on a tour. We did not do a tour onto the ice field.
"We had a quick stop here, and walked up to the edge of the glacier. Wow. Take a hat. We went early evening and it was very chilly, but great- not many people here which added the the awe inspiring vastness of the ice. Very cool (see what I did there?) place to stop.We didn't bother with any paid trips or anything. The soup from the restaraunt at the centre was really good too."
Started our tour from the visitor centre. Bus took us to a transfer station where we boarded the ice discovery vehicle. Taken onto the glacier where we had circa 30 minutes to ourselfs to walk on the ice within a well marked out area.Excellent tour guide / driver who took us onto the ice. Emma was very knowledgeable and humorou!After completing our trip on the ice we were then taken to the skywalk which includes an audio tour giving information on the surrounding area. The glass walkway was fantastic!Excellent views on both parts of our tour.Would recommend.
"We did this trip as we headed along the stunning ice flow parkway between Banff and jasper. It is a spectacular place with the mountains and the glacier up in the distance. The place is well organised with lots of parking and visitor centre. There are loads of people here and it is really mass tourism on a massive scale. It all felt like overkill with a 4 mins coach trip up to the transfer station on to the massive glacier explorer vehicles. From there it's 15 mins on to the glacier. You are left on the glacier for 20 mins to stand around and take photos and watch a few tourists fall over and get their feet wet in the ever melting glacier which is entertaining, then it's back on the bus and back to the visitor centre. Are trip was made slightly more interesting when the explorer driver crashed into another bus! All Pretty disappointing really. I think it would be far more interesting and organic to book a local guide and walk up to the glacier as you can see people doing. Next time I would do this, I have done a guide walk in Iceland and it was far more interesting!"
"I took this trip with Brewster, which mean the driver of the bus bought the tickets for us and we tourists didn't have to stand in line like the other guests. This same driver took us to the parking lot where we took the Ice Field Explorer. Later that day, I bump into other people who went to the Columbia Ice Field by themselves and the wait time was two hours. So I recommend you book a tour for this activity or either you go early in the morning to avoid the crowds. (The bad thing about being in a tour is that you only have a limited time to enjoy the place, and don't get to do it at your own pace, but I guess in this attraction is ok).The Columbia Ice Field Explorer was awesome, and I recommend it to everyone who visit Jasper. It's a huge truck with tires of about 1 meter of diameter. The tour to the glacier was very fun, I had the chance to drink glacier water :D straight from the glacier. The tour guide said there were only 24 buses that can drive on a glacier, 23 of which are in the Columbia Ice Field and the other one belongs to the US government, I think that's pretty cool.Be careful with the time, because we were given only 20 minutes to explore the glacier, so when there were 5 minutes left I started to walk back to the bus, but it was very slippery and couldn't walk very fast, I arrived ONE minute late and the Columbia Ice Field Explorer was already leaving without us. The driver (Andrew) said ""honestly, guys, I totally forgot about you"", 3 minutes later, 3 other people were left behind as well because they were 4 minutes late, which really pissed them off. I mean, I could have go back in another bus ( I guess) and spend more time in the glacier but that is not the case, all the other drivers who drove us in the city tours (from Brewster) were very kind and waited for us all, something Andrew clearly didn't.Anyway, great experience, make sure you don't miss it!"
"The whole thing of bringing you to the glacier by some tailor made bus with huge tires was really not my style. You end up together with more than a hundred of people walking in a very small area of the glacier. Big tour group tourism industry style..But I guess if you have never been on a glacier in your life, it is worse trying it out, as you do have a feel of it, and the bus drivers do give you some bit of interesting information."
"There are a variety of options at the visitors center. You can see the glacier for free, but you cannot go onto the glacier without a paid guide. There are options to hike to the glacier for free and view from the base, you can pay to go on guided tour and walk on the glacier, or you can pay for a bus ride onto the glacier and then time to walk around. The bus ride is a package deal and is spendy. We enjoyed viewing the area from the visitor center and the lowest parking lot."
"Ice field in summer. We joined the Brewster Tour at Columbia Ice Field, Jasper National Park, Alberta. It is in the Canadian Rockies on the boarder of BC and Alberta. You can a regular bus to board huge snow CATs to get close to the ice field, where you can bottle up some ""pure"" million year old melted glacier water. The whole tour takes about 2 1/2 hours. The experience was very interesting. But very crowded and the Chinese buffet was just ok."
"We have seen glaciers before, so we may be a bit biased. On a hindsight, we could have avoided going there and saved our day trip for a hike around several intriguing places. Yet, we parked near this glacier and there is a short 350 ft elevation hike for about 0.5 mile which gets you near the glacier. There were few hikers who were trying to get to the glacier but there are signs that prohibit one from crossing this river that comes from the glacier - maybe to allow the glacier adventure company to make money from their bus tours!"
Our family was very excited to visit this glacier - it is awe-inspiring! It is well-marked to keep tourists safe. It was sad to see how far the glacier has retreated in the last hundred years though...
"One word, breathtaking. After a short walk up the hill, you actually get to see this magnificent thing. Wasn't to touristy at all and the parking was so close to it."
"There is a car park right at the centre, however if you try to use it an attendant will tell you you must travel a few miles down the road and get a bus back up."
"Very interesting to visit, but with long lines and very expensive activities, this has really lost interest. The model in the information area is ""nice"" yet nerdy and gives a decent enough explanation of the glacier. The ice bus and the sky bridge are very touristy and highly over-priced."
I have lived near the ice fields for over 20 years and have never gone. There isn't a lot to see but what there is to see is worth seeing. Not many people can say they have stood on a glacier so it is an unique experience.The trip on the transport was a lot of fun. I enjoyed the ride down the steep grade. We went early in the morning. I the morning because of all the crowds in the afternoon.
"This was my third visit to Icefield, but first tour with Brewster. It's nice ride, tour guide was helpful and knowledgeable."
"The Columbia Ice fields are amazing to see up close. The walk up to the glacier is cold and takes you through the materials left behind by the glacier. Once there you feel as though you are in a whole different world. Barren rock surrounded by numerous inukshuk's built by fellow visitors. The retreat of the glacier is tracked over time by signs posting the dates of past positions. It was very enlightening to see this record of the past. Access to the base of the glacier is free, however you have to pay for a tour to get onto the glacier. My best piece of advice, bring your own food. There are only two restaurants in the visitors centre nearby and they are very pricy. I mean $30 per person for a Chinese buffet pricey."
We enjoyed the informative trip in unique vehicles out onto the glacier. The drivers were funny and engaging. We then went to the new sky walk. The young teenagers with us really liked this walk over the edge. There was a great interpretive self-guided walk on our way to the glass platform. The only issue we had with the glacier adventure was that there were no bathrooms after leaving the glacier. It is a 2.5 hour tour and we were encouraged to drink water off the glacier. That was a treat but made for desperate times for one of our youth and interfered with her ability to enjoy the last bit of the tour.
"Crazy crowded and very commercialised. Thought it would be different being in a national park, but left almost straight away. Would not go back. Quite disappointed."
"If you want to do something different on your holiday then this is the trip for you.Wrap up warm and wear sturdy shoes and you'll have a brilliant time. The guides are good and friendly and the trip exciting.There is a fenced off area you are allowed on which is quite limiting but also reassuring as you know it had been checked and is safe.There is nothing like drinking that fresh, freezing water straight from the glacier melt water."
"We visited in the late morning and by an hour later it was getting really busy. We walked to the glacier and took pics but did not actually walk on the glacier. To do this you should go with a guided tour. The view is awesome with the glacier and mountains all together as one. If you have a wide angle lens be sure to take it along. You do not need special hiking boots, sneakers will be fine, the walking path is very well beaten down and easy to walk. As you approach the glacier the wind picks up and cools you down, I had to put on a coat."
I have visited glaciers in other countries and this area is very accessible when comparing. Take advantage of this wonder as it continues to recede. Their are several glaciers viewable from the road. Take advantage of tours and hikes with guides if you can. I hope it remains here for several years to come as the glaciers are a true wonder an source of fresh water! Everyone must experience this their lifetime.
"If you have visited this area's in years past it is always interesting to check yearly and see the differences and the receding glacier. I recall coming 35 years ago-compared to what you see today-amazing. It will all to soon be gone, so if you have the opportunity-make that stop and have a look. Let your mind wonder to when the glaciers cut through this area of the Rockies. Visit during the week-less people which makes your stop more enjoyable."
"Both adults in our party had done this tour as kids, so we wanted to take our children back. The ice field has changed but there was lots to experience and learn. You need a few hours if you're taking in the skywalk too, we were about 2.5 hours total. Highly recommend taking the early morning or late day trips, far less people make the discovery centre more enjoyable and make the tours less hectic. We took the 9:30 tour and we're happy to avoid the mayhem that was happening when we got back!This is a lovely sightseeing tour but dress for cooler, outdoor, mountainous temps."
"I was on a trip out West from Ontario and took the Icefields tour on July 30. It was a great experience, and an amazing view on the icefield. Our tour guide was Dakota Hodgson. From the beginning of the tour right till the end she was courteous, always caring for the well being and safety of her tour people. She offered up lots of interesting knowledge on the icefeilds and the parks in general. It was all very informative. When you combine the spectacular views and the spectacular tour guide Dakota, you get an awesome adventure. The only sad part was having to leave the tour and tour guide behind. the skywalk afterwards was an added bonus worth the extra adventure. I would definitely and highly recommend this adventure. If you get Dakota as a tour guide, make sure you say hi!"
So awesome to see it in person and learn how the ice field feeds all the glaciers. It's a must to stop and see how thick the ice field is and how beautiful it is contrasting the surrounding grey mountains.
"I loved it. The guide was really nice, and I really enjoyed it. I even got kissed by the guide ;) Really recommend it."
Well worth a visit - 1 hour drive approx from Jasper with sights to visit on the way. You pass the sky walk on the drive but this is also accessed from the Ice Field Centre. Either book a time in advance or be prepared to wait (we waited 1 hour on an early August afternoon). The actual visit took us around 2 hours. Excellent photo opportunities.
Absolutely fabulous to see and to drive through! You could have been on another planet! This region truly epitomises Canada in all its wilderness glory! You would never get tired of marvelling at the glaciers and snowy peaks! And come across the odd bear or two on the roadside! Fabulous!
"This is my second jaunt to the Icefields and my wife's first. We stayed at the Glacier View Inn. We ventured out at sunset to ""touch the toe"" of the glacier. It was amazing. Always dress warm in layers for the occasion as it is very cold up there. Be cautious of not venturing any further than the designated route due to crevasses."
"We did the Ice Explorer ride up the glacier. The experience was significantly diminished by the sheer number of people they are trying to run through the operation. The tour bus volume on a weekend is extreme. All staff members (from ticketing, to bus, to ice explorer operator) were very pleasant and courteous. Their attitude and approach is the reason I did not give this a poor rating. A young Aussie named Maddi in particular was very helpful to us in adjusting our scheduled time. While we waited in line, I watched her in action dealing with a herd of diverse personalities. At all times she was pleasant and courteous, while maintaining full control. She was a real problem solver. In summary, the glacier is cool (punn intended) the crowds were not. The staff are well trained and do a great job, given the task at hand."
This is definitely a must see in Jasper National Park. Brewster has snow buses going into the glacier but there are other options like hiking to the tip of the glacier or take the guided Ice Walk tour.
"This was an amazing experience. We walked to the toe, although the ice has now diminished so much that we couldn't touch it as my husband could on his last visit. We also did the Fortified Trail. It almost felt like we were walking on the moon. What a great experience! It is so sad that this and the other glaciers have melted so much. Dress warmly!! It is cold!! We were prepared but many people came in flip flops and shorts and they shivered."
go early! before 11 am or you will have difficulty getting tickets to go on the bus to the icefields
"We visited this Glacier with a group including young and teenage children. By consensus, this turned out to be the most memorable activity in a vacation full of great moments. It offers something for everyone: unique views / photo opps on the glacier and the canyon, being able to fill your water bottle from the source, convenient place to park and even the adventure of getting to the glacier on the giant explorer truck. We had Dakota as our guide. She is the best - the entire bus was laughing with her witty comments."
Ive heard so many amazing things about this place but when we got there it was no cooler than any of the other sights along the way. The fact that there is ice in the middle of summer is cool but the prices are out of this world. We skipped the ice tour and the skywalk but we managed to get some really amazing pictures from the parking lot/ walk to the toe of the glacier. Just driving by and seeing the glacier is all you need. The skywalk did look really cool though (my GF is afraid of heights). I would definately try that next time
"Get there early, gets very busy, which would make the trip not so spectacular. Loved walking on the glacier and the sky walk is very good, but not over the glacier as I thought it was."
"We decided to skip out on the tour bus onto the glacier and instead took the ""toe of the glacier"" hike up to the base of the glacier. You can't actually step onto the glacier with this hike unless you take a guided tour (not sure if they're free?), which I was disappointed in as I was led to believe you could step onto it, but you do get some close up photos. It is dangerous though so I understand why people aren't allowed on it. There is a sign saying a boy died there one year after falling into a crevasse. The hike itself isn't too demanding, lots of elderly and children manage it as it's short (though steep). That being said, you are at an incredibly high altitude and you may find yourself out of breath easier than you expect. My wife struggled as she has an issue with her lungs, but we managed to make it. The glacier itself is impressive and you will get a lot of great photos. I actually found the photos were better from the Icefield Center. You can't see the full scale of it from up close, but it's good for a photo of yourself in front of the glacier. The hike doesn't take too long (30 minutes return) and the parking was fairly empty. I think most people park at the Icefields Center, but there is separate parking nearer the glacier for those walking the trail. It's quite sad seeing all the signs on the drive up saying ""This is where the glacier was in 1985"" and realizing it used to be much, much larger than it currently is."
"We were in awe of Columbia Icefield, what a sight! It is not the most scenic of the glaciers though. Unfortunately this Icefield experience has turned into a money making venture for the Parks. I was hoping their huge facility would share information regarding this geological wonder, but instead housed an inn, kiosks selling tickets for the overcrowded skywalk, a cafe or two and overpriced buggy rides on the glacier. Is that ecologically sound? Garbage littered the walk from the parking lot to building. Simply driving the Icefield Parkway will give you a more intimate and beautiful glacier experience."
"The first time we saw the Icefields was in 1974. Since that time, the glacier has receded considerably. You can take a trail to the edge of the glacier where you can see how much it has receded. This is not a handicapped accessible trail."
We went on a day where it's clear blue sky one minute and the next we saw dark clouds rolling in with hail. We're all stuck in the visitor center due to incremented weather. Our tour was delayed for 3 1/2 hours but it's worth it. It's a beautiful sight up there. The tour guide gave us 1/2 an hour to walked around the ice field and we drank some of the glacier water.
"It was a good experience standing on a glacier. We had done this in Alaska,mane it was much more serene. This place is really big business. Nicely run, good young folks driving you out. The visitor center was crazy busy. I actually got very claustrophobic, even though the center is big. Lots of restroom facilities for everyone."
"Really enjoyed this and the cheerful information imparted by Super Kyle and the rest of the team. Cool on the glacier, good shoes and a coat are advised."
"How else can one describe the opportunity to stand atop a glacier?True enough, it isn't cheap, but sadly few amazing natural wonders are not exploited in some way or other nowadays. In defence of the exploiters, - they do provide a pretty decent service to and from the glacier in rather specialised and expensive vehicles- it would be almost impossible for the vast majority to access this magnificent natural wonder without them.It was our third visit, spanning 18 years, and yes the glacier is noticeably shrinking even to our untrained eyes. Whether by global warming or other means. They say it may have decades left before it's gone. If you choose to visit, get there EARLY. The gates open at 9.00, be there as early as possible to avoid the hordes who descend from 10.00am onwards.Oh, and wear something that will keep your feet warm and keep you dry if a hail storm blows in. It is a glacier after all. It's astonishing to see the number of short wearing sandal clad numpties stepping out onto the ice and having to immediately retreat back to the Snowcoaches to avoid frostbitten extremities.NB - it's worth booking the glacier skywalk as a combo with the glacier trip. You are shuttled to and from the skywalk after the glacier trip."
"The opportunity to step onto a glacier with such ease was a pretty unique experience and worth the visit. It all seemed very well organised and there were good toilet and restaurant facilities at the main building. The trip in the truck out onto the glacier was excellent and informative but it is understandably very popular and the area deemed safe to walk on is limited so expect it to be pretty crowded with other tourists.Tips for clothing - as well as general warm clothing - would be something to keep your ears warm and waterproof footwear, as there are slush puddles which you can avoid but would be easier if you don't have to.Also, take an empty bottle as you can drink the melt water, fresh from the glacier!"
"The Columbia Ice Fields and explorer ride is not to be missed. It was a beautiful clear day and this was part of our Rocky Mountaineer train and motor coach tour. The explorer vehicle is in itself an adventure...we had a great operator and she explained things with humor, especially the part where road looking like it ended. Yikes! first gear in reverse were her words, I closed my eyes as we seemed to be going over the edge of a cliff/road but it was not so bad after a few minutes. Do this as the views and walking on the crunchy ice are worth it. I would actually do it again!"
"We did this 'adventure' as part of a tour. It really just is a short ride up onto the glacier and you get out for a few minutes and then ride back. If you come from a part of the world without snow and ice, it may be more interesting. The visitor's center was an absolute madhouse with people trying to purchase tickets and buy souvenirs. We would probably not visit this attraction again."
I purchased the Alberta resident pass which allows for unlimited visits to the ice field. I feel like once was enough. I enjoyed the informative guides on both the bus to the ice field explorer and the explorer itself. Once on the ice it's self guided and I felt like 30 minutes was quite enough time. Definitely bring a toque and mittens and sturdy boots. Even in the heat of June it was cold.
The ride to the glacier in the vehicle with oversized wheels was fun and the driver gave a very good overview of the Columbia icefield and the glaciers. The glaciers are beautiful and a plenty of time was given for exploring and photo taking. Make sure to dress warmly and gloves for young children for a more enjoyable experience. It was only 9 degree Celsius there while it was 18 degree Celsius in Jasper.
Another amazing stop here at the Glaziers -well organised by the tour well managed our Vehicle to the Glazier broke down they were onto asap and we were back on track to visit the most amazing place -you have plenty of time to visit even got the chance to fil up a bottle of the glacier water crystal clear icy cold.
"Previous visitors raved about how unique and special an experience this was so my expectations may have been too high. I visited with a bus tour. Our trip was arranged in advance so the whole thing took a total of less than two hours, including a trip to the cafeteria for lunch (big mistake). I understand that for people without pre-paid tickets and for those not coming on tours the wait is considerably longer. This place is very, very touristy. Think several hundred people in the visitor's center/cafeteria area and probably a hundred out on the ice. As part of a tour we got bused up to the drop-off point immediately which was great. The ice explorer vehicles weren't as impressive as I'd been led to believe that they were but the limited experience in them (five minutes) was fun. The driver was an excellent guide. You don't go very far out on the icefield at all, maybe a few hundred feet. Once there the main attraction is to sample the glacier water. The water tastes excellent but if you do this I would be careful to go as far upstream as you can within the boundary limits as there are dozens of other people doing the same thing, putting their hands and bottles into the water. Honestly there are some nice picture opportunities here but not a lot else to do. We spent a grand total of 5 minutes on the ice before returning to the explorer for the five minute journey back to the bus. We were then dropped off to eat at the center. The buffet was just under $30 so we opted for the cafeteria. Mistake. The cafeteria is extremely overcrowded, pricey (I spent $15 on two pieces of pizza) and the food quality was awful. My pizza was dry and unappetizing. It looked like it had spent several hours under a heat lamp. The prices for everything are high including the ice explorer itself. It's a bit of a cash grab.The sheer number of people visiting made this experience a whole lot less appealing to me. It's hard to appreciate the beauty and wonder of this place while jockying for position with hundreds of other visitors. We didn't get a chance to do the Skywalk, which looks intriguing, but our bus driver said that it's actually really poorly placed so we weren't missing much. I'm thinking that this is probably a better experience if you go in the morning to beat the crowd and if you pack your own food."
"This was our second time on the Icefield Parkway. Great way to spend the day. It isn't cheap to do the Brewster tour of Glacier and Skywalk, but is is worth it. Get the tickets in advance to save time. You can do this in Jasper the day before. Plan to take a hike around the Visitor's Center. The views are spectacular and the Park Service Rangers will help you choose a hike."
"An interesting trip to the Glacier. You are transported via special vehicles to the ice where you get out and walk on the Glacier. You can fill your water bottle with clear, pure Glacier water that runs off the melting ice."
Visited with a tour as part of our Canadian trip. A must to do if you are in the area but would probably not do again. You are taken by bus to the ice vehicle that carries you up to the ice field. Once up there you get to walk on the glacier - on our visit it was a lovely day but normally cold so need to be well wrapped up. Our guide and drivers all bubbly and informative. The only downside the visitor centre was packed with people big queues and expensive - recommend you take some lunch with you.
"I should have read the sign at the bottom more carefully, the one that said you can't walk on the glacier anymore because of excessive melting (due to global warming). So I hiked up the large hill - at high elevation - only to get a closer look at the glacier, not to touch it. Then I had to make my way down that same large hill. Unless you like to hike just for fun, it's not worth the climb. Save your knees and look at photos. Or pay for the bus trip onto the glacier."
"The views of the glaciers are impressive and scary considering how much has receded in recent years.If you plan on taking tours, do yourself a favour and book in advance online. The gift shop is cool but the cafeteria should be avoided, along with the dining hall. Bring your own meals and enjoy the outdoor picnic areas."
"We had a great time! But the times fill up very quickly. We arrived at 10 am and had a 2 hour wait for our trip to the ice field. Amazing trip on the bus, dress warm, the temps at the visitor center were in the upper 60's, but on the Glacier my wife nearly froze with 3 layers of clothing! The bus/guide was very entertaining and provided some pretty cool info about the history and future of these amazing natural treasures. This is a VERY popular stop book a time or get there early! May be the only way you will find a parking space too!"
We enjoyed the glacier tour and the skywalk. The drivers were very informative. I found it very busy with a lot of pushy tourists. If I went again I would plan for the hike with a guide. This is definitely worth seeing as this glacier will be gone in 50 years.
"Everything was very well organised for fhe trip, very informative information, we felt safe. Amazing to sit on a glacier that is so old. There is a great exhibition to walk through in fhe main building and terrace with amazing views. We didnt use the cafe but it was very busy."
"In order to visit the Ice Fields, you needed to do the Skywalk combo as well ($80 CAN per person). You could do the Skywalk only for $37 CAN. We had heard so much about the neat experience to walk on the glacier that we did the combo. Wrong choice. Just didn't get what the thrill was all about at that price. The Skywalk, however, was surprisingly very nice. We saw a mountain goat come straight down the mountain behind us, jump across the road, and walk directly under us (glass floor)."
"I did not have high expectations of the glacier experience, but it was actually AMAZING. Before I get into the details, know that you must book your time IN PERSON. (Probably not an issue in June, but you definitely need to pre-book in July.) We bought our ""Ultimate Explorer"" tickets at the Sulphur Mountain Gondola in Banff, and they did not tell me that I needed to visit a Brewster desk to book the time. You cannot book a time over the phone. I didn't find out until I called the afternoon before and was told I needed to travel all the way to the Lake Louise Chateau to set up a time. It was annoying, but it wouldn't have been so bad if I'd only known ahead of time.An important tip: BRING WARM CLOTHES. It was warm the day we went, but I put on my ear muffs, jacket, and gloves on the glacier. It was COLD out there. There were people in our group in flip-flops, and they must have been freezing. Also, be sure to wear decent shoes. It's ice, so it's slippery.Another tip: Bring an empty water bottle so you can fill it up and drink some glacier water. The skywalk is very fun, but it wasn't as impressive as I expected. I would have been happy with just the glacier experience. (But we did buy the ""Ultimate Explorer"" ticket, so it was included in that.)Last tip: If you're doing the glacier experience and the skywalk, allow three hours from boarding time until arrival back at the centre.Overall, it's worth the experience. But be prepared with the appropriate attire."
"Our family of four (two adults and two teens) did the three-hour hike on the glacier with Icewalks. I had always wanted to go on a glacier since I was little, and I was not disappointed. It is very varied and interesting, our guide Mike was extremely knowledgeable and engaging at the same time. Everyone in our group loved it!"
"Been here several times before, so it was interessting to see the changes in the glacier - scary perhaps. Nice hike up to the glacier. They should put more signs up indicating tje expanse of the glacier at given years."
"Walking on Columbia Icefiled is an incredible experience. The views are spectacular. Unfortunately the ice receded signifcantly since my previous visit years ago and some patches of the ice look sort of dirty, however, it is still a very impressive experience and I highly recommend it."
"The Ice Highway itself is a sight to behold....stop often and enjoy. After flying from Victoria, BC, to Calgary, Alberta, my wife and I drove six hours to our rental unit in Jasper, Alberta. And what a ride it was, especially along the ice highway between Banff and Jasper National Parks. We were astounded by the kaleidoscopic variations of the mountain wilderness, at times gorgeous, at times savage, and at times surreal.Massive mounds of beveled slate boulders connected to spiraling mountain tops graciously swaddled in snow. Some bare mountain bases looked like ivory carvings; others were pocked-marked with scraggly fir trees. Many of the peaks grotesquely jutted out (like wild primordial warriors) and resembled huge bulky swollen necks thrust over the underbelly of the mountain. Sections of other promontories seem to be caved in, battered and blackened by erosion. After seeing haphazardly strewn boulders beside the highway shoulder, my wife and I knew why there were frequent signs warning of avalanches."
"SO many people and it's SO expensive to go onto the icefield. You can hike close to the ""toe"", but it's roped off so you can't actually get to it. There are too many gorgeous places in the area to spend your time on, but you can stop if you need to say you have."
We visited with a tour group. The ice fields parkway has a turnoff for the actual columbia ice field. You can take an ice truck over to the glacier or go for a glacier walk for an additional fee.
"Cool to be on a glacier - i did feel bad that we were probably hurting the glacier and it felt very touristy, but it was still neat to be there - i enjoyed the ride on the glacier bus too."
Good at base facilities. Well organised tour. Very friendly and informative drivers/guides who transport you in huge snowmobiles to the glacier. You get to spend about 25-30 mins on the ice. Some of the tourists wandered off the marked safe areas which caused consternation but fortunately no mishaps. Interesting and good for photo shots.
"It is melting fast so it won't be long before there isn't much left of this glacier. We parked along the track to the toe where the glacier had been in 1935 and it was a good 15-20 minute walk to get to where it is now. Great views onto the Athabasca Glacier, but don't forget to look around you as the mountains in the whole area are stunning.It is free unless you decide to join the hoardes of others on a coach tour up onto the ice for a few minutes at the cost of $$$ and a lot of queueing up. I'd say give that bit a miss and take more time to enjoy the scenery instead."
"Enjoyed visiting the Athabasca Glacier, the explorer vehicles take you out onto the ice with a knowledgeable guide (we had Tall Mike, who was great fun). We walked on the glacier (don't wear your flip flops! You do need to wrap up warm, but can stay on the bus if you want to)."
"Glaciers are nice but, again, very touristic. The Ice Field Highway is nice to drive, a beautiful trip."
"Yes, it is a bit pricey but we think it is absolutely worth it! We did the combo of the Ice Field with the Skywalk and both times the guides/drivers were great. You can't miss this when you're in the Rockies!"
Beautiful stop. You can walk up a ways to get good photos or fight the crowds to stand I line to pay $80.00 for a ride up. So many people it ruins it. I chose to take photos from below and stop at the other free stops along the road.
This tour to the Columbia ice field is worth the $$. You take a special vehicle to go onto the ice. Take an empty water bottle so you can get delicious glazier water. Bring a jacket because it gets cold up there. Wear good shoes too because it is slippery.Get tickets in advance or you will be waiting on line.
We drove the Columbia Ice Field Parkway and it was just jaw dropping beautiful. So many mountain and glacier views. Truly amazing!
We really enjoyed the two tours we did. One out on the glacier and the Skywalk. We booked both together. Booking ended up being a bit of a nightmare and it is extremely busy there during the summer months. Once we got our tickets figured out the rest of our trip was enjoyable.
"We learned lots about the geology of the Rocky Mountains and the glaciers through our bus drivers and tour guides Eve and Ness. They drove very safely, and imparted interesting information in a fun way. Ness was very cheeky and funny, but very kind and helpful. She filled up my water bottles with sparkling clean glacier water, and helped me get safely across the little rivulets of water. Eve was such a sweet young thing, it was hard to believe she was old enough to drive such a huge tour bus, but she did so safely while imparting interesting information."
Get up close to the glacier. Like the markers which indicated where the Glacier was in previous years - see it before it disappears.
"We drove the parkway between Banff and Jasper. We visited lake Louise and made many stops along the way. Don't miss Peyto lake or Athabasca Falls. We saw deer, elk, caribou. No bears. There are hundreds of photo opportunities. The colors of the lakes are brilliant and nothing like we had seen before. There was some traffic but nothing very heavy. The only time we had to slow down was for wildlife grazing on the side of the road."
"Everything about this experience was fantastic. The coach drivers set the scene, the £1.3 million trucks that took us to the Glacier added to the excitement especially going up and down the steep gradients and finally being on the glacier with all its history and sheer magnitude makes you feel very small. The global warming can be clearly seen here and this area makes you feel very pensive. A word of warning to people with joint problems there is a risk of falling. Don't worry about the price just do it you may never get the chance again."
"I last visited the ice field in 1970, when it extended at least a mile or more beyond its current edge and was sturdy enough to support snowcat vehicles full of tourists, long since replaced by buses with ""monster truck"" type tires and a far more limited range.There are signs along the trail pointing out the furthest extension of the ice, by year. It was, frankly, a great disappointment to see how much has been lost due to decades of warming climate, and I fear that, like Glacier National Park in the US (where all glaciers are likely to have melted by 2030), these glaciers will disappear as well and we will all be the poorer for it.All that said, it is worth a stop to experience what remains. The trail is steep in places, and it's rocky enough to make sturdy shoes with ankle support desirable (although you can make it in sneakers if you're careful about choosing your way). Public access is somewhat limited, so if you want to hike deeper into the ice field, it will be necessary to book a guided tour, something we did not have the time or foresight to do but you may wish to give it a try. There's a booth where I think you can book a guided tour right near the trail head, although that may require a wait, and there may be another one at the Discovery Center nearby.Without a guide, a requirement for deeper exploration due to the fragility of the remaining ice, you'll still be able to learn some useful information by reading the signs posted along the way. They'll help you understand the natural processes at work here and also clue you in as to the plants and animals who still make their homes here.I assume that a visit to the the Columbia Ice Field's Discovery Center would be an even better aid to understanding, but it was so crowded we couldn't find a parking space. Moreover, to me, the most important thing is to SEE and to EXPERIENCE directly this unique, vanishing landscape. I especially enjoyed observing all the flat black rocks with vertical scratches made by the glacier, probably as it retreated. It is awesome to imagine the immense forces at play here, and it gives one increased respect for Mother Nature. I wanted to run my fingers through the grooves to touch, literally, the power of the retreating glacier and imagine it as I saw it in what now seem like ""glory days"" 46 years ago.The bottom line: the ice fields will not be here forever, so be sure to see them now, and take your children and grandchildren too, if you have any and can give them such a marvelous adventure."
Drove this highway twice. Once in one direction and once in the others. The scenery never gets boring. Absolutely spectacular and majestic
This was on my bucket list to see a Galcier but I saw loads and the walk up to the toe of one of the glaciers at the ice fields centre is amazing well worth a visit.
"For $80 per person, you can walk on a glacier and do the skywalk as well or for $153 it will include Banff gondola ride and either cruise Lake Minnewanka (Banff) or Lake Maligne (Jasper). We chose the all inclusive $153 package. Icefield discovery centre is where you can buy your tickets and where you board the bus that takes you across the road to join up with the all terrain ice vehicle. The driver of the ice truck will give interesting commentary for the short drive up to the glacier where you hop out and walk on the glacier, fill your water bottles with the purest of water. You only get about 20 minutes on the glacier before you have to return to the ice truck. The ice truck will take you back to the bus that will transport you just down the road to the glacier skywalk (separate review). All in all, a good experience. If you don't want to spend the money, you can see the glacier from the discovery centre and you can go across the road and although it's a bit of a hike up to it, you can walk on the glacier without paying the price. The skywalk you can not get to without paying."
"An experience so stupendous that I am having difficulty stringing words together, even now...a month later!You must go here and see the majesty of the mountains and witness the strengths of glacial waters to carve the landscape. The glacier itself is small and getting smaller as we speak, but is still huge and the ridges of rocks it has left in it's wake as it has progressed and receded over the years easily demonstrates the power of iceflows.We took the bus service and walked on the glacier with a couple of hundred other people. Rewarding in it's own way, but we will walk with a guide on our next visit and brave the crevasses rather than risk damaging the glacier any further.This sounds mean; a little too much like it was alright for me to do it, but you shouldn't because you will damage it, however it is true to say that I will walk lighter next time and hopefully leave the glacier to last longer for others to enjoy"
"So - you need to go with the flow (the 'ice-flow' - bad joke from husband!) You will rarely get a chance to stand on 10,000+ years of history just be prepared to stand on it with 10,000 other people (well more like 200) That said, this operation is slick, enthusiastic and informative as well as being good fun. The inclusive Skywalk is not for the faint-hearted or those with vertigo but is a well delivered experience. The staff residences which are well hidden behind moraine house around 150 staff in high season - and this should tell you how commercial this is and also how well run: Young personable staff make this work."
You ride a bus to the snow machine that takes you to the Columbia Glacier where you get to stand on 300 feet of ice. View of the glacier is great from the lodge. The movie they have is beautiful but gives you no information.
"We were advised to visit the Columbia Icefields by our travel agent and she was right on the money. We did this between staying at the Fairmont at Jasper and the Fairmont at Lake Louise. The Brewster coach picked us up and our driver Dave and host Danni couldn't have been more helpful. We were a small group which suited is well and we were soon travelling toward the Icefields. However we were lucky enough to stop and see two bears on the roadside at two different locations - first a young Grizzly and second a black bear. We then visited the Athabascar falls ( see separate review) and then onto the Icefields. The tea house wasn't much ( separate review) and we then were driven up to a staging point where we boarded the snow mobile and were slowly and expertly taken up onto the glacier by the driver Tall Mike. It was a surreal experience - we felt like we were on the moon! We got out and had a walk around and filled out water bottles with the freezing 20,000 year old water - so pure. After about 30 minutes we made our way back to the staging area in the snow mobile. Utterly memorable and once in a lifetime. Big thanks also to Dave and Danni for the expert and interesting commentary all the way and to Lake Louise. A great day and a must if you are in this area"
This is not a technical extreme excursion. It's perfect to get close to a great glacier. Make sure you take a jacket and dress for the location. It's a little cold up in the field. Worth the trip. Wish they had an adventure tour for seasoned climbers.
"Very interesting . Not the glacier we were expecting, but great guide and driver, Catlin. Yes , you should dress for the cold. Not as cold as MT. Washington in New Hampshire, but it's cold.
Have a great time"
"Our visit to the Athabasca glacier was part of a well organised day tour which also took in the Athabasca falls which originates from the glacier. The trip onto the glacier was all very well organize, coach from the visitors centre to a drop off point at the foot of the glacier and then transfer onto the glacier via a very large snowbus. The driver was informative and amusing telling us that whenever anyone but her drove the bus it had a tenancy to break down (very reassuring especially when descending a very steep slope). Once out of the bus and walking on the glacier its a wonderful sight to take in, camera is a must and if you go prepared with an empty water container you can safely collect and drink the crystal clear glacier melt water. Also recommend good shoes and warm lightweight clothing."
"We did the glacier adventure package which included a trip to the glacier and the sky walk. Both were very cool. The trip up to the glacier was great in the huge buses. Our two drivers, Callum and Johnson had us all in stitches the entire time as well as giving us great information. They made the trip up to the glacier even more fun!Very pricey, but worth it in my opinion."
Great adventure tour on a perfect day! Highly recommend going early (before 11am) and purchasing your tickets in advance in Jasper so that you have a booked time and don't need to line up for tickets at the Columbia Icefields. Buy them at 616 Patricia St in Jasper.
"Come early, dong expect good food, but hope for Some sun because the glaceer is best with Some light.
The ride up there is very good, going downhill very steeply
You have to watch your steps and far to much people but worth the while"
"Amazing place, 5 glaciers in immediate view and words don't do it justice but I recommend getting up close to the glaciers. I was travelling with 3 generations so taking the Brewsters bus tour suited us rather than the Ice Cube walk which looks really good too. This is my 3rd visit and 2nd with the bus tour. Fairly pricey and crowded but the staff are efficient and enthusiastic about the experience making it feel less like being a processed pea. Previously I have visited at quieter times (I would recommend early or later tours avoiding peak time between 11- 4pm paritcularly in high season). I would not recommend staying at the Inn or eating at the eateries at the centre. The latter are extremely poor quality and overpriced. It is sobering to see how the glacier has retreated since my first visits in 1997 and 1999. Take warm clothing and shoes with a good grip for the glacier and don't forget the camera. On the bus tour there is plenty of time allowed on the glacier to take photos, gather ice melt water etc. We also went on the sky walk but the lack of rest rooms after almost 3 hours meant we had to cut it short. Also with the numbers of other visitors around there was no sense of the exposure on the glass-floored balcony. Again pick your time.If money is limited you can walk up the toe of the glacier (but not onto the actual glacier itself unless you have appopriate knowledge, experience and equipment). There is car parking at the visitor centre or down closer to the toe."
"A stop off on our tour to visit and walk on a glazier, all very well organize, coach to a drop off point then transfer to a very impressive ""$1.2 million Snow Bus"", our bus driven by a ""GIRL"" (what ever next) she was extremely informative, amusing and made it a good trip onto the ice, it was only a trip onto the ice but you don't get the chance to do it everyday, do it, (Brewsters Tours are a great company for these tours)"
"My husband & I took the package tour through Brewster. Arrive early or book a time ahead to avoid the wait. The centre has a cafeteria, short movie, national park information, and a gift shop - so plenty to keep you busy while you wait.You board a large tour bus that takes you across to the icefield, where you then change bus to the AWD explorer that takes you a short and steep drive (10 mins) on to the glacier. You have about 25 mins on the glacier itself - within a roped off area. It truly is a spectacular feeling and sight. So take it all in and enjoy the beauty!Tips:- bring a jacket, hat and gloves for the glacier- wear shoes with a thick sole and grip (or ice cleats); it is treacherous- don't forget to #sharethechair- AAA, CAA, AMA offer discounts but you have to be on a tour before 11am or after 2 (or3?) pm- to get the discount you cannot book a time ahead; you have to show up- if you buy the Brewster tour package you cannot do the icefield alone without the Skywalk"
"We had a perfect day for the Glacier Adventure and I'd recommend it to anyone if you've never been on a glacier. But beware, like so much of our Canadian Rockies trip, the volume of tourists can be stifling. The ""but"" in my title is that we were only interested in the Glacier and not in the Skywalk. That's how I booked it several months ago. After coming off the glacier and being picked up by the bus to return to the base, the bus headed off to the Skywalk before returning. So we had to sit there for a longer-than-stated-by-the-driver back and forth. Brewster is doing a disservice to their patrons that are only interested in the Glacier. This was not mentioned at all when I booked our trip. I think that is because Brewster has combined the two activities and you can no longer book just the glacier-only Glacier Adventure. What the website did mention was that you could spend all the time you want before boarding the vehicle to return. Folks, that applies to the Skywalk, not the Glacier. We only got 20 min on the glacier. I would've enjoyed more (though 20 would seem like plenty if the weather was not as glorious as we had). And the space available to explore is very confined and very crowded with the tourist hordes."
There are 5 Glaciers here and the best way to see them is to do the Athabasca Icefields 3 hour IceCube walk. You will not be dissapointed
"We took a tour from Jasper to Banff with Sundog tours. Our Guide was David Yaske. We had so much fun and learned a lot from David. The weather was nice when we went to the Glacier, but started to rain when we got to the sky walk that part was disappointing, but loved the tour."
"So the checkin point is horribly packed with people! If you can I'd recommend eating before arriving and opting for the earliest time possible! The glacier is super cool and you should definitely drink the glacial water, because, when else will you get the chance?!"
Nice trip by snow coach along the glacier. Its alot cooler (meaning colder) than you would think. Definitely bring a light jacket or sweater. You can also drink from the melt off from the glacier.
Its the hightlight of icefields parkway.. Even from the road u can see this massive glacier and tons of car and people..We took the athabasca tour along with skywalk.. We go in a bus to the transfer point on the mountain beside the glacier.. Then board a huge wheeled bus and make our uphill n downhill onto the glacier..We have half an hour to wander and walk on the ice and take pics.. Its lovely.. Then u r taken back to transfer station where a bus takes u to the skywalk.. The skywalk was wonderful too..
"No need to write about how spectacular the icefields are...not cheap, but worth every penny.Be sure to purchase tickets in Jasper or Banff (or wherever, maybe available online too) before heading to the icefields visitor centre (between Jasper and Lake Louise). Book a specific time so you can bypass the huge lines.We booked a 1PM tour at one of the Jasper outlets (around 10AM that same day), drove down and basically walked onto the bus. Upon our return, the lineup was at least 2 hours long!Don't get stuck - pre-book."
"In a way this review is about all of Jasper National Park and all of the parks that make up the Canadian Rockies. These parks have stunning views and enough trails and enough recreational water to take you the rest of your life. Please do experience these parks with as much time, as much of your recreational resources, and as much energy as you can.About the ice fields specifically. These are truly stunning glaciers. The biggest and most powerful I've ever seen. We mustn't let them melt away."
"The ice fields are reached by all-terrain Ice Explorers. The Athabasca Glacier is melting along with others. This is a must see place before most of this goes the way of so many other glaciers that have melted to ice field status and not glaciers. The all-terrain drivers have lots of information to share. You might want to wear shoes with a good grip or grippers that slid on your shoes. It will make it easier to walk. There is a cafeteria that has lots of choices for lunch. That was the time of day that we were there. The lodge at the bottom of the glacier has a gift shop and plenty of bathrooms.Don't forget your camera because the view is awesome on the glacier. We didn't pay for our ticket for the tour up, it was taken care of in advance. Whatever it cost, it is worth doing."
This is an easily accessible opportunity to walk on an ice field; something that most people only think about. The hosting staffing have a proven systems of buses and ice crawlers to take you safely to/from the ice. I really enjoyed this opportunity.
"Yes it was very crowded at the height of Tourist Season. But the Icefield Experience tour is well worth it, if you'd never been near/on a glacier before. Verry cold. Dress warmly. Even in summer. (I bought a knit hat in the Gift Shop and was glad I did!) Downside is you cannot make reservations online or by phone, only in person at tour offices? Even so, we had only a 30-minute wait on a Saturday afternoon before our trip began. It is a bit pricey to walk around on the ice for 30-min, but a great experience and some great photo opps. Another free alternative is to drive up and park close to the icefield, but not walk up on the glacier."
If you ski or are around snow all the time this would be a dud to see. I would not book this ahead of time. Nice story about it but a money grab on the way to jasper . Get in line and decide once you arrive. There is a movie inside the stop. Food washrooms. Zoom in for your free pics. Nice patio to sit outside . There isn't much to do from Lake louise to jasper. Rest stops are plenty with washrooms etc. But no restaurants..no WiFi. No radio!!!! Get gas when you see signs. Remember you can't call for help with no WiFi!
The Columbia Ice Fields and the trip out to the glaciers are quite the experience. Even more spectacular is the drive and views on the way there!
"If you'd planned to just walk on the glacier, then think again. For the 2016 season you can't buy the glacier walk on its own. It's pretty obvious that nobody was paying to go on the rubbish skywalk, so now you HAVE to do both as part of an $84 package!!! But guess what, you can do the skywalk on its own. Just not the glacier. They're desperately trying to recoup the outlay spent on the failed skywalk by FORCING you to pay for that too if you want to go on the glacier. Disgusting!"
"I will say on the day we went, it was cold and rainy, and windy...which was okay since back home it was dry and over 100 degrees Fahrenheit. The walk up the hill from the parking area is steep and rocky. Once you get to the top, you will be closer to the glacier, but you wont be walking on it like I thought. For me, it was a little disappointing. And, although we didn't, I think the best way to see it is with the tour that takes you first by a short bus ride up and then onto a snowcat. Parking for the tour is across the highway from the glacier."
It is a must see when you are in Jasper. Bring a camera and good walking shoes. Its a bit of an adjustment going up as your higher altitude than normal.
spagetti is very good at the cafeteria... but prices are high ! Need a free shutlle to go on the bottom parking lot
Quite the experience!! Very beautiful Scenery and Lovely drive. Extremely busy in the summer but worth the experience
"Peaks and glaciers: Nigel, Boundary, Andromeda, Athabasca, Snow Dome, Kitchner. Plan to get there early enough to take the tour. The view was beautiful and the visitor center was engaging and fascinating, but we didn't get to enjoy the tours. . Have to go back again."
"Taking the Ice Explorer out onto the glacier is quite an experience. You get to take this massive machine out onto the glacier and then walk around for 15 minutes or so (in a contained area) to check out the glacier and enjoy some glacial water. The hill that you go down to get out there is incredible, but the Ice Explorer handles it with no problem. Emma was the driver/tour guide I had and she was fantastic - very funny, informative about the history of the glacier, and the area in general. All-in-all, quite an enjoyable experience and would highly recommend it to others."
"I've been in ice fields before, but with global warming, this one is really becoming sad. It's WAY over-toured, and is melting beyond belief as you watch it."
"This is a great piece of history! It's neat to see how far the glacier has receded. It can be very busy and crowded, but still worth the adventure and scenery."
"So we booked the explorer pass via Brewster. What you have to do is to book a time slot, specially in the peak season. If you just show up (even with pre purchased tickets, but no pre booked time , then you still have to wait). We booked the pass online but had to get the timings booked via their ticket agent in Jasper townsite. The ice fields were amazing and better than i had imagined. So the sequence of events is-Arrive at the discovery center. Take a bus from the hall to an intermediate drop off point. Transfer to a special ice explorer bus. Drop off on the ice field.. After about 30 mins on the glacier take bus back to intermediate point. Get onto a regular bus.. Travel to the skywalk (if u have booked it). After sky walk travel back to discovery center."
"You park at the visitors centre, where there is a restaurant. Very quick service, but food is very mediocre. Difficult to find table. Buses take you up road where you transfer to big wheeled bus Sort of vehicles. The glacier itself was very disappointing. Cold and icy underfoot, not at all remarkable."
Quite scary when you look at it from the bottom. Looks very very high. I can't believed weve reach right to the top..breath taking and fun for children.
"This was really interesting, but sad to see the Athabasca glacier melting so quickly, we went up to the glacier on the Ice Explorer Our driver Zak was such a character."
"So it gets VERY crowded here. Arrive early, preferably before 11am. The Brewster mammoth bus that goes to the glacier is awesome. Gong down (& up) the steep hill seems impossible. Our bus driver/tour guide was the most informative fella I've ever heard, trying to scientifically explain glaciers, all the way to the formation of snowflakes. And he did so with great wit. Once on the glacier, which can be slippery, veeeerrrrry sllppery (bring walking sticks), some other danger areas including a crevice or crevass, for the adventure seekers. Big Horn sheep bid us farewell all around once we headed back. Combo withskywalk, though a bit pricey. GUessing the Brewster chugs fuel."
"Beautifull beautifull beautifull !! Free to walk at the base of the glacier. They offer two guided tours on the glacier which is $90 per person which is not cool, should be free. This is a walking tour not the bus tour. We were bad enough to walk around the rope and guide our own walk to the glacier and doing glacier water :)"
This glacier experience must be seen to be believed. The ride to and from the top of the ice field is a big part of the fun. Our guides were friendly and fun.
"Yes, the lines are loooong and the parking lot is busy. Yes, it is very touristy. We had bought tickets in advance in Jasper to avoid the lines .But where else can you actually walk on a glacier without the fear of falling into crevasses.Our guides were fun and informative, we enjoyed both the glacier and the skywalk.Alarming to see how the glacier has retreated."
Enjoyed walking up to see Glacier. IMHO no need to ride on it. Visitor center was bedlam. Plan to pack a lunch rather than eat there and enjoy it at another stop along Icefields Pkway as you'll not get a table there. Movie was OK -- a bit abstract.
"One can walk to the glacier overlook in a short distance from the parking lot. it is a lot of information there about diminishing glacier size, etc."
"This was an amazing trip once we got to the glacier/sky walk but waiting for it was one of the worst parts of our trip. Once there we experienced long waits to get to the two main attractions and the centre its self is not an enjoyable experience, it is very busy, food there is terrible and very over priced"
"Getting to the Columbia Glacier is an experience in itself. You board this enormous bus for a 15 minute drive up to the glacier. At one point, your going downhill briefly at a 32% grade. It's part of the fun. Once at the glacier, you walk around in the safe zone for about 15 minutes and take all your pics. You are told you can drink the glacier water but I did not. Our teen loved this; thought it was so cool! We loved it too. It's an experience of a lifetime. Dress in layers, wear sensible shoes. If you're unsteady on your feet, be sure to have someone along who can assist you. You're walking on ice!"
"This is the must stop on the Icefields Parkway. You now have to purchase the combo ticket with the Skywalk if you want to take the glacier tour. A regular bus takes you from the visitor center which has a museum, cafeteria, and expensive restaurant across the highway to the glacier bus station where you board the special buses with the large tires to continue up the side of the mountain and down a steep incline to the glacier. It continues on the glacier to a large area that was cleared in the middle where the buses park and let you get out and walk on the glacier. You then are brought back to the glacier bus station where you board a regular bus that takes you to the skywalk which is a few miles north of the visitor center. If you don't want to walk on the glass walkway you can remain on the bus which goes back to the visitor center. The glass walkway is an interesting experience."
This magical place is unforgettable and like no other place in the world for the rugged beauty and jaw dropping views but we saw so many people not adhering to the warnings posted on the Toe of Glacier hike. I would exercise caution and keep children within as reach....The cafeteria in the Ice field chalet was veery average and extremely expensive for deep fried food and sandwiches .The line ups were very quick to purchase tickets for the Skywalk and Glacier Tours but it was confusing and unclear as to where the separate lines where to board the buses. ( you must take a bus to the Skywalk 6km away - the is NO parking at the skywalk AT ALL)All and all it was a once in a lifetime experience .
"Make sure you are wearing good footwear for the clumb up to the toe of the glacier. Can be slippery, wet or dry. You need to be in decent physical shape for the climb. Dress warmly because the tempetature drops significantly at the top, even during hot summer months. Especially if the wind is blowing."
The ride to the ice field in the Ice Explorer was very cool as it's likely to be the only place where you can ride in such a vehicle. As for the glacier itself it was fantastic. The history behind the glacier and its surroundings was enlightening. It was like standing in a refrigerated room. If your brave you can fill a water bottle with glacial water and enjoy a cool drink. The tour guides were all pleasant and informative.
"This was a neat experience to do once, but no more than once. I had wished I had some cleats on the bottoms of my shoes so I would have been a bit more sure-footed. It was a neat experience to walk on the glacier and also ride in the large trucks that take you up there. It would probably be really neat for someone who isn't too familiar with snow and ice. I would recommend it if you can fit it in on your itinerary."
"This was a stop on our Rocky Mountaineer tour. An exercise as you must cue up via bus first, transfer to an Ice Explorer capable of climbing up to the glacier. No fear, stout equipment. Colder obviously so have a jacket, gloves and hat note windy as well. We did eat at the cafeteria total madhouse but we survived. Had a egg salad sandwich that tasted pretty good. BTW - cash only. Recommend if you love exploring majestic views."
"Funny how slow these beasts are. But from an eco point of view, understandable.
Getting off on a actual glacier, walking on a living 'thing' and experiencing the clean mountain air and taking a swig from the streams of clear, clean glacial water-unparalleled!"
"Like everything else in Baniff and Jasper National Parks, GO EARLY, before 10am to avoid the crowds."
Drove from Jasper through the Icefields a must see trip as can't capture the full essence & beauty. The visitor center has a very good film & displays. Large parking area for RV's that made it easy & you can park there overnight for $15.
A fair hike to get to and very busy. Didn't book in advance but got on tour 30 mins after arriving. On big bus into glacier with enthusiastic guide. 20 mins to take pictures and walk around. Good visit. Then back to Skywalk on glass floor on side of canyon which was pretty average. Overall a good experience in amazing scenery.
"We drove from Jasper to the Ice Field and it was a very scenic drive. We ran into a hail storm on the way, but it was short lived. The Discovery centre requires a LOT of steps to get to it, so it you are not fit, don't go up. However, the Ice Field is still worth seeing and driving over to"
"We went from Banff to Jasper and then a couple of days later did the return trip. Wow, how amazing was that to see everything from 2 different ways. It truly is indeed one of the most beautiful highways in the world."
Remember to take a coat and good shoes because it is very cold up there. Masses of people all queuing up to get tickets. Its a short ride in a huge ice bus thing to get up to the glacier. You have to be careful of melted ice and huge holes where by you can disappear under the ice. 20 minutes on the ice field is plenty of time as its freeezing up there!
"similar vies to the Andes in South America or the Hymalya in North India and Nepal except that this is Canada: very clean, order unlike the 3rd world. Advantages and dis-advantages"
"I had been to the Ice Fields on two previous occasions, third time was a charm. We picked up tickets at Brewster Travel in Banff (on same day we picked up tickets for later that afternoon) and the tour kicked off exactly on time. Our ice explorer driver was Jack (youngest driver), he was superb at commentary, driving and even chatted during the time we spent on the glacier. Very educational and fun. Skywalk was thrilling, all told, 3-hours of pure enjoyment."
"It was gorgeous but I wish the park had a better payout in terms of travel. There were rock trucks mixed with cars, RVs, tour buses, and construction vehicles. When people would see the glaciers or animals they would slam on their brakes. Many near miss accidents. However, the scenery is stunning, even on a cloudy and rainy day like when we were there."
The ice fields were fine but the trap that the Canadian police set for you as you head north from the visitors center to Jasper is not fine. The speed limit goes from 90 to 50 and you are going down a hill and there are 4-5 police waiting to ticket and pull people over. It is a money making racket for them. I thought there was an accident so many cars were pulled over at one time. Hint: Change the speed limit to 60 from the Ice Fields or put out more signs saying to slow down for that hill.
We choose not to take the bus onto the glacier ... but did walk up the path to the bottom of the glacier! Awesome experience!!!
"You have three options to visit the glaciar. Either you take the special busses that drive up to and pollute the glaciar. For ma a loss of time. Or you drive down to the parking lot at the glaciar s toe. This is enough to give you a great visual impression of the glaciar. Or you take a guided hike up the glaciar. We dif not do it, but saw a group on the ice and i think that must be a hreat experience. In any case this is a place you cannot drive by"
"Athabasca glacier is visible from the Icefields Parkway. Due to climate change, it is sad to see that the glacier currently recedes at a rate of about 5 meters per year and lost half of its original volume!!! Since its close to the parkway and easy to access, it is one the most visited and photographed glaciers. Travel onto the glacier is not recommended unless properly equipped and accompanied by professionals! Do not forget to take warm clothes with you... It will be a unique and unforgettable experience :-)"
A visit to the disappearing glaciers is a must for everyone. While the experience is incredibly commercialised the bus tour on the Glacier is a great experience with those 5 foot high wheels and incredible power. The ice fields are an amazing view and makes you realise what they may have been like 50 years ago or even further back.
"Yo, Ness. We had a great time on the Icefield with you as our driver!! Thanks for showing us your engine! This is a great trip. Getting to stand on a glacier is really cool! Pun intended. We were not expecting the Skywalk to be too exciting, but it was great too! There is more to it than just the Skywalk. The exibits as you are walking to the Skywalk, were very informative and well thought out. Enjoyed the day!"
Well organized and very professional. It was awe inspiring to be standing on the massive glacier. The company tended to the environmental considerations well. Food and facilities in the visitors center were stretched to the max. I was shocked that they had NO decaf coffee. Not a show stopper but What?
"This was amazing!Thankfully we'd been advised to go early so we were on the 0930 tour, we had to arrive 10mins beforehand which we did. Dress warm, as it is cold. We had Laura as our Ice Explorer driver who was fun and friendly with lots of knowledge to share! Take an empty water bottle so you can drink the glacier water."
"We went to the Icefield Center to see the exhibits. We ate a picnic lunch and DD got a lot of great photos. I was so disappointed that we could not buy a ticket for the glacier tour only. The skywalk is such a rip-off. I assume they weren't selling enough tickets to it so they now force you to buy a ticket for both. Interestingly, you can buy a ticket for the skywalk only. I refused to be ripped off by the company that runs this enterprise and did not buy their over-priced tickets.The drive to the center and onto Jasper is beautiful. We got lots of incredible pictures without taking the glacier and skywalk tour."
From Jasper to Lake Louise - this is on the way. We stopped and walked to the ice fields. Did not take a tour - since it was $$ and we didn't want to stay for several hours. The walk up is a moderate hike - but short - and it's COLD there - so wear a coat.
"Be warned: doing the combo trip , express / skywalk , involves 5 , bus journeys.Glacier express : basically they have cut a huge road across the glacier to allow these monster buses to access the parking area in the middle. When you get there , there is a small area around the bus park that you are allowed to walk round for 20 mins. It was only as I was doing the trip that I realised how uncomfortable I was with the ethics of this - it surely can't be helping the glacier all these fuel smoking vehicles and passengers , the area surrounding has turned grey. All this reinforced by the driver describing how the glacier is under threat.Glacier skywalk : why ?! Big fat waste of time and money. A bit of glass and metal protruding over a narrow gorge which you can see perfectly well from the side. It is not over a glacier and it is not over the Grand CanyonDrive on past all this without stopping. Only use the facilities if you must, it is a horrible morass of humanity, disgorged from numerous tour buses."
You can take all the photos you want but the Ice Field really needs to be seen first hand. Unbelievable!
"Very pricey, but worth doing once if you want to be on a glacier without climbing. Get there before 11:00 to avoid the massive crowds in buses that depend on this place from Banff and Jasper. Book your tour time a day or two in advance at the offices in Jasper or Banff. Almost as good is the free hike to the base of the glacier, but remember you are risking your life to walk on the ice field outside of the tour area."
"During our extensive travels, the most beautiful drive we have ever been on is The Ice Field Parkway. This parkway is an extension of the road which traverses Banff National Park and Jasper National Park, two gems of the Canadian park system. Located on the border or Alberta and British Columbia, running north-south, the drive through the spine of the Canadian Rockies is absolutely breathtaking at every turn. Near the halfway point between the cities of Banff and Jasper is the Columbia Ice Field. A very nice Visitor Center is directly across the parkway. Free info on the history of the region and various programs for cost are available at the center. You can walk on the glacier one of two ways. You can pay for the tour, which buses you to the Columbia Glacier, or you can park and walk uphill all the way about 1/2 mile to the glacial face for free. Your choice. If, for any reason, you are in Calgary, a trip through Banff and Jasper National Parks is an absolute must. A stop at the Columbia Ice Field is also a must. This area is beauty at its most primal!"
"We stopped along our drive, and it was beginning to drizzle rain. We drive to the parking lot at the toe of the glacier. There are signs everywhere to keep children back as there are hidden crevices. I would recommend a harness for smaller children. The hike up is rather steep. If you have health problems, take advantage of the bus tours. Another amazing place to visit and I would bring family and friends there."
The visitor center is disappointing because it is very crowded but the views are spectacular. The glacier is breathtaking!
The highlight of this trip is the tour on the Abathasca Glacier on special snow buses. It is a unique experience walking on and drinking from the Glacier. The tour is expensive (circa 80 CAD per adult) and is packaged with the Glacier Skywalk which is a forgettable experience. It is not possible to take the Glacier tour alone without the Skywalk until after 5pm which I suspect is much too late for most people. But it was a worthwhile experience. The drivers of the snow buses did a good job entertaining us with jokes and provided information on the glacier on environs
What a place to be walking on the ice field. I never thought I would have this unique experience in my life time. Worth making the visit.
Great college kids driving the ice coaches and explaining the area. Don't wear sandals as you can get your feet wet. Amazing what beautiful scenery God has given us in the Canadian Rockies
A fun trip to the Ice Field. This is an amazing place to visit since there is not many glaciers left in the world. A must see.
Remember to bring warm clothing since you will be standing on a glacier...and with the wind blowing it can be very cold.
We stayed in Canmore and were told it took 4 hours to get from our motel to the discovery center. We booked our tickets which were open a few months before we took our trip then the evening we got there we drove into Banff and got a tour time which is required as well. We got there in 2 1/2 hours so we just hang out upstairs as it was a rainy foggy morning so we figured our 11:15 time maybe the weather would be better. The weather had started to clear by our tour time. We also bought the combo ticket for the skywalk which was nic as well. The whole tour took about 4 hours. We were only on the glacier but it was pretty slick on the ice with the excess moisture and riding the ice buses was fun.
"This was a thrilling experience. Well presented. you could feel the ice moving beneath your feet.
Very well organised."
"The Ice Coach buses exist only here (and there is one in Antarctica). Certainly a great experience to drive onto the glacier - remember to bring a water bottle, it is the best water I ever drank."
"This place has many visitors. It takes some time to walk to the glacier from the parking lot, but even from a distance the glacier is impressive to watch. Never walk on the glacier. Crevasses are hidden under the snow and survival is probably not very likely if one falls into one of them. It is possible to get quite good pictures from a distance also. Pictures are best in sunny weather with a blue sky as a backdrop."
"We found 80 bucks and a 2,5 hour wait a bit too much and decided not to go on the snow coach, which, as from this year, is only sold as a package with the skywalk. Instead we had a coffee at the dreadful buffet style restaurant and watched the glacier from the terrace."
"When in Jasper National Park, you must visit the Columbia Ice Field. There is a parking lot where you are allowed to walk in the glacier by yourself. I recommend visiting the visitor centre to purchase the Ice Buggy ride to the glacier where you are given a guided tour (although brief) of a higher portion of the glacier."
The Icefields parkway is by itself worth a drive (or a bike ride). Sadly the Icefields have receded quite a bit and are not longer as impressive as they once were.
This is easily one of the must-visit attractions in Jasper National Park. The views are awesome and it is very thrilling to visit and step on a real glacier. It is highly recommended for all ages. They also have food for purchase at the Icefield center.
"They expect the glaciers in the Columbia Ice Field to be completely melted in 100 years -- so see it now while you can. There is actually a marker in the parking lot that shows where the glacier was located in the 1800's and it is amazing how much it has shrunk and retracted. The ride out to the glacier is very informative and fun in huge diesel-powered ice explorer buses. Once out there you can walk on the glacier (in designated areas) and even fill your water bottle from flowing melted glacier water (cold and refreshing). The ticket price includes transportation and admission to the glass-floored skywalk which hangs out over the canyon -- not as frightening as it sounds, but some tourists did freak out and could not go all the way around the walkway. Oh, and for those people who think they'll save some money and just stop at the skywalk as they travel up to Jasper -- gated access for tours only. Hoser! It was a well-spent three hours on a bright sunny day. I am glad we stopped on our way driving up to Jasper, because the original plan was to stop on our way back from Jasper and the weather that day was not as nice."
Very exciting experience. I enjoyed it very much even in the rain. I felt totally safe. I would highly recommend this tour.
Visit before in all melts! I was hesitant but glad I took the tour. The ride to and from was very informative and well worth the money the glacier itself is incredible. Go now!
"Absolutely spectacular. The guided tour onto the glacier was well organised. The guides were informative, engaging and fun.
The vehicles felt safe and were impressive. We were encouraged to drink the glacier water and I instantly felt younger!
A great morning."
"Took a special snow bus with wheels 6 feet high to climb up the rather adventurous ride to the AthabascaGlacier. Our guide Bruce made it very entertaining. Once we arrived we had 13 minutes only to navigate around on the ice field. The beauty of the blue ice, mountains, clouds, and other glaciers was incredible. Water from this ice field remarkably travels to Arctic, Atlantic, and Pacific oceans. It was cold up there so plan accordingly. I was glad I had gloves and extra layers. My tennis shoes were a bit slippery, hiking boots would have been better. Some carried empty water bottles to collect some of the delicious water. We lost out on that. Since I am older, it would have been nice to have 20 min to navigate up there as I was very slow with the ice. Only draw back tho. Glad I experienced even for 13 min. We ate lunch back at the center and that was extremely busy. Had to wait in line for either Chinese buffet( $30 pp) or longer line for cafeteria. A bowl of soup was $9. Take you lunch and picnic. We did not have enough time ( bus allowed us 1 hr) to see movie on lower level."
"Yes, a must do... an always retracting iceglacier. Go and buy a ticket, it worth it. Amazing to be downstairs with a shorts, but to put your winterjacket on at the glacier. Cristal clear and freezing cold water."
"We visited the glacier because it seemed like a neat thing to do but more so because we didn't know if we would ever have another chance!The idea that you are standing on ice from an ice age thousands of years ago is incredible and weighty. If you focus on that fact then the drinking of the glacial water and imagining the icefield beyond are quite moving experiences. However, the actual logistics of the visit are very fast-paced and you feel like you are just a number in this big, touristy machine. I also was not a huge fan of the driver/tour guide's approach which was to tell self-deprecating jokes (about getting a date), or talking about the truck/busses they use on the snow/glacier rather than teaching us about glaciers and this one in particular. If you are not deterred by the cost, this is a must do while in Jasper. But try hard to think about the significance of where you are rather than the tourist feel all around."
We visited as a family group ( 9-70) and all enjoyed the guided trip to the glacier. The sky walk was amazing and included a family of mountain goats! Such an educational and fun all family adventure. Truly a highlight for our Canadian Adventure!
"Our driver, Ness, drove skilfully, spoke knowledgeably and kept us highly entertained with her dry humour on this momentous journey up on to the Ice Field. She had the entire bus roaring with laughter throughout the trip, all contributing to the unforgettable experience."
"Some say God started the creation of earth here, and I think they are right. 150km of 100% outstanding views of nature, colours, water, rocks, mountains, trees, snow, ice, animals, it never stops to amaze you. You can only see the big classics (no shame int that because spectatular) or stop and try out one of the smaller hikes away from the crowd. In both cases read some preparation material, make a choice, unless you sleep in the rare lodges you will have to be selective, take some water and food with you (prices are through the roof in most of the service areas on the road) and picknick under way.Enjoy the ride and take your time, because here is were God was at his best."
"If you are in Jasper National Park, you have to do this. It is the experience of a life time. However, it can get crowded so get there early in the morning, and wear warm clothes as you will be standing on ice. You stand on the Athabasca Glacier which feeds the river of the same name and flows to the Arctic Ocean. Two other glaciers feed from this same ice field one to the Atlantic Ocean and the other two the Pacific. That's pretty neat. This is great for couples and families.If you go bring an empty water bottle, you'll be able to get seconds old cold water from the ice melt. It is delicious."
"While we had planned to tour the icefields, the crowds, waiting in line and just seeing the numbers of people tramping all over the icefields caused us to change out minds. Just too many people who are there just to say they have been there and not to enjoy what they are seeing, or learn about the history."
"the columbia ice fields are particularly beautiful and around every turn is a new and awe inspiring view. we went up on the glacier and it was cold but absolutely worth the trip. even the vehicle we took to get on the glacier was cool. the guides were funny, happy, and informative. i loved every minute of the experience."
"It was god to be able to walk on the glacier. We were impressed with the ice bus that drove us onto the glacier and equally amazed with the the height of the moraines. We saw more impressive glaciers in Alaska, but did not get to be as close to one."
"I've been here twice and I personally think it's a bit overrated... It's true that it's the only glacier accessible to anyone (i.e. without strenuous climb or special gear). But you really can't walk very far without proper footwear and heavy coats. It was freezing cold, rainy and very windy when we were there this time. So make sure you put on something warm and maybe insulated shoes with traction cleats if you really want to spend some time on the glacier."
"The Columbia Ice Field is a must stop and probably was one of the best tours we did while in the Canadian Rockies. We drove up to Jasper from Calgary and considered stopping on our way up Icefields Parkway to Jasper but it was cloudy with light rain so we decided to do it on our way back down to Banff and Lake Louise. We were so lucky, we had beautiful sunny weather which made the viewing of the glacier all that more impressive. Plan about 3 hours from check in to bus transfer to the Ice Cat vehicle for a drive onto the glacier. Buy your tickets in advance to schedule a time, we did noon which was perfect. Bring empty water bottles to fill up with the purest water in the world. The drive up Icefields Parkway is amazing, every view is better than the last. it was about 40 to 45 degrees and felt great from the Texas heat we experienced just a few days before. Don't miss it, just a short 2 hours from Lake Louise or Jasper."
The ice fields tour and sky walk is well worth it. You get a guided tour with the history of the glacier. Our tour guides were very knowledgeable and friendly.
"If you ever get a chance to visit the Columbia Ice Fields, do it. Yes it may be a little pricey but well worth it. There are package deals available to visit several other attractions with the ice fields, which would make it a better deal. We were on a bus tour with Gate 1 so we could only visited the ice fields. This was one of the highlights of the tour. If you're in the area you must do this."
Didn't think I would like the skywalk but turned out to be amazing. The ride on the ice cruisers is an absolute must. Walking on the glacier was great. Be sure to go to the bathroom before as there are none on this 3 hr. tour. Buy your tickets ahead and you go to front of the ticket line.
We did the tour to the columbia ice field and walked on the gletcher. A must do experience to experience the greatness of nature!
This is a must on any visit. Safety is a real consideration by all the staff but a chance to step out on the glacier should not be missed. We loved every minute if it
Not a great start with over a 2 hour wait after booking in . Food dreadfully expensive and very very poor quality. Trip up the glacier was great and guides very informative. Not interested in the skywalk no matter how much Sandra the bus driver tried just not worth the extra expense. Ladies Toilets were absolutely disgusting and filthy according to my good lady . Worst encountered on trip .
"We avoided the skywalk and other tourist events and were still able to get a good view of the glacier....further down the road towards Jasper there are more glaciers and photo ops. The centre was jam packed, but the view from upstairs was great."
"If you have never seen the Icefields before, stop here. It was an amazing view. If you don't want to spend the money, you can see them from the road. Just pull over and be careful."
"This is a really well organised informative tour. The glacier is impressive and its great to get the opportunity to walk on it. The depth of the ice, colours etc are amazing. We also went to the Skywalk more than 200 metres above the gorge which is part of the package and well worth a visit. The tours are timed every 15 minutes so when you buy a ticket you are given a time. There is a good cafe on site. Allow about 3 hours in all for the tour etc."
"This attraction offers a good view of the Columbia Ice Field that feeds several glaciers, of which the Athabasca Glacier is one. Mammoth Brewster Ice Explorers cart passengers across the highway and up to the Athabasca Glacier, where one can get out and walk on the ice and take photos of the glacier, ice cap, and Dome Mountain. The ride up and back takes about 90 minutes. Some visitors have opted to walk up, but beware - there is a wide and deep intentional ""puddle"" that washes off road dirt from the tires of the special glacier buses; it is unwise to try to wade through this frigid water. Dress appropriately for the chilly wind and ice - warm coats and sturdy shoes."
Well organised facility. Trip was very good and breathtaking scenery and well informed guides. Also a must do was walkway which provided great views.
"The Columbia Icefield is worth a visit. Partially because the peaks that you will see for at least ten miles on either the Banff or Jasper side of the Icefield are some of the most impressive peaks in either park.The Icefield is clearly receding but still a sight to behold. Most interesting to us is the multi continental divide. Water from the glacier flows to the Pacific, Atlantic and Arctic Oceans!"
"The discovery centre was flooded with tourists and there was no room to move. You had to wait ages in line to buy a ticket and then again to board a bus to either the skywalk, which is just a normal lookout point next to the highway, yes it has a glass floor but you expect more for the price. Or you can drive on the glacier is a big truck. Save your money and drive down to the glacier lookout point just under it. In summer you can walk to and onto the glacier yourself."
"Visited the Glacier Centre & did both the tour/walk on the the glacier as well as the Skywalk. Brewsters have a slick system so while there were literally hundreds of people there, lines moved quickly and vehicles picked you up and dropped you off on time. You head to the glacier in a huge sno-mobile and have about 15 minutes to actually stand on the glacier, scoop up some of the crystal clear & freezing cold water & snap some pictures. Parks Canada has two pairs of Adirondack chairs at the sites that are very popular for pictures. Pricey? A little but it's an opportunity to stand on a glacier!"
"After the shambles of the Icefield centre and a 4 hour wait, our trip to the icefield was brilliant. The vehicles that take you onto the glacier are amazing and our driver was brilliant. It is not the sort of trip you do every day and walking on the glacier is a 'never to be forgotten' experience. We loved it."
We were at the Columbia Ice Fields many years ago and the attraction is still as popular. You can take a bus out or you can just walk out to the Ice Field. It is definitely something worth seeing.
"If you have not seen glacier before, this is a good way to go. I bought the Glacier Adventure ticket from the Brewster, Inc. It is a combo ticket that includes both the Columbia Ice Field and the Glacier Skywalk. Although I am not interested in the Glacier Skywalk, but I cannot buy ticket just for the Columbia Ice Field. I enjoyed the glacier walk on the Columbia Ice Field. It was fun to ride on the Ice Explorer car."
"You must first access this from the main road where you pick up a bus that takes you 4 minutes to the ice field vehicles. After transferring to these large tired vehicles you travel 10 minutes onto the glacier. At that point you get out and walk around a restricted area. Very scary at times as the ice us slippery, even though I was wearing hiking boots. Stay away from the blue ice and areas that are melting. Follow other people's foot steps unless you want yo take a fall. I liked this attraction as it was something very different."
We stopped at the Columbia Ice Field while on our way to Jasper from Lake Louise. Thankfully there was not much crowd at that time of the day and we were able to get a ticket for their trip half an hour later.It's a unique activity which I would recommend to everyone. After all how many times are you able to literally stand on a glacier!The ride on the special custom made buses is quite a roller-coaster ride and is an experience in itself. I would definitely recommend this to everyone while in Banff/Lake Louise/Jasper.
We only stopped here for a short while on the drive down highway 93 from Jasper to Banff. This was one of the highlights on a trip with stunning scenery. They do organised tours of the ice field and I can't really comment on that but for the view alone I would recommend you go.
We were making the drive from Banff to Jasper and stopped at the Columbia Ice Fields. When we pulled into the parking lot we saw dozens of tour buses and once inside the Ice Fields building you could hardly get around because of the crowd. Most of the visitors seemed to be Asian on guided tours. We wanted to go out on the excursion but the lines were so long that it would have taken hours to finish so we decided to continue on to Jasper.
You must take an explorer up to the glacier and fill a water bottle with glacier water. It is difficult to walk but take small steps. Our guide Bruce was quite funny.
"Best experience ever!!!
Went here when I was 10 & just took my 5 year old daughter, had a blast both times."
"We took the Brewster bus to visit the glacier. The ride on the glacier buggy was a thrill - you won't believe it 'til you see it. Thought we were on a roller coaster, going down steeply and up just as steeply! Once at the glacier, you had about 15 minutes to snap pix and walk a bit. The ice under our feet was mushy, with some ice cold puddles (I knkow - my foot stepped in one!). We had been here maybe 9 years ago, and really could tell that the glacier was smaller. Glad we got here again. The guide was very funny, and informative."
There is a lovely view overlooking the glacier from base camp. Enjoy the view then join a coach which transfers you to the big wheelers which take you onto the ice a quick 30 mins on the glacier is ample for taking snapshots and collecting a bottle full of meltwater.
Would recommend this one it will take time to do the glacier walk and the air walk but very worth it buy the Brewster ultimate package it is great value
"Best seen after recent snow, trips by snowcoach on to the glacier are expensive and sometimes busy. Not advisable for those with disability problems."
"Visited the glacier with the family including nephews and senior parents. Emma our tundra buggy driver was a very informative and very funny guide. The tour is fun, unique and informative. My senior mother did have a bit of trouble on the steep steeps of the tundra buggy so it is not recommended for people with mobility issues. In addition, the centre where you load up on buses is a zoo full of pushy tourists and the food is very overpriced. However, there are some incredible photo opportunities that make the trip worthwhile along with the opportunity to drink some glacier water."
We were disappointed to get to the columbia ice fields to be told that we would have to wait over 2 hours for the bus. We opted for the walk but didn't get the full glacier experience. Plan in advance or plan on having to wait
"We went on to the Glacier in June and experienced 2C and snow!! although I am told this is not unusual. A great experience, but be prepared for it to be busy with lots of other people."
"Wow! Loved having a knowledgeable, theatrical and terrific driver! Had a tour group of Senior citizens....on ice, literally, with Ness. She made them feel relaxed and comfortable. Great source of information and very sure this young lady will always be the 'tip of the glacier'!"
The tour is a bit expensive but an excellent chance to walk on a glacier without needing mountaineering experience. The ice breaker bus driver was informative and very entertaining. We spent about 30 minutes on the glacier walking around and getting glacier water from the source. A once in a life time experience-very accessible glacier.
"Loved coming here. My child who is 5, really liked it and walked all the way up!!! It was a true Canadian experience as its in the mountains and has that crisp cool air! They do have buses that take you to the ice field itself, but we walked up to the bottom of it! Definitely would recommend to other people."
"Spectacular drive from Jasper.
Pre-booked tickets helped avoid long queues at Glacier. Ticked off list, but not worth a return.
Ignorant tourists everywhere, seem to want to get eaten by bears or risk injury when taking selfies..."
"Seeing the ice field and glacier were part of our tour plan so we wanted to experience it. The building where the buses pick up tourists to take you to the glacier was jam packed with people. There is a nice film and photo dispay on the lower level; we'd recommended that vs the chaos of the store and lobby area. We spent a lot of time waiting for our time slot to take the bus to the glacier and after standing 5 minutes in sleet and rain on the glacier, we were done. Its nice to see but is a crowded tourist attraction. We questioned whether this is abusing the environment given climate change and the melting of the glaciers? Saw it, won't do it ever again."
"We did what many thousands have done before, but I'm sure I would do it again. The little ride on the big buses is cool and the walk on the ice while very basic is a good thing to do. There is plenty at the centre to either eat or buy before or after the ice field trip as well. Would do it again for sure."
"Glacier is the most accessible one from the Columbia Icefield. Spills down and short easy hike brings you to/onto the ice. So very rare, as about the only readily accessible glacier this far south in North America. Scenery is outstanding, as there are falling icefalls surrounding too. Dramatic scenery is an understatement!"
"This place is absolutely amazing.We went on the ice breaker bus, and Andrew the driver and guide was very entertaining and educating.The sense of humor and the professionalism is better then any other place I've ever been to.If you go there, ask to go on his bus.You won't be sorry."
"The columbia ice field is a very amazing and expensive experience. We went to the glaciar adventure tour with an australian guide who was very informative and nice.The tour itself is an hour and a half all along.There are two problems:1. The price is high (80 cd per person)2. You have to pay for the sky walk aswell.If you do get there at around 3pm, and you don't want to do the sky walk, you can pay for the glaciar adventure solo, for 62 cd. That's a pro."
The bus that takes you to the top of the glacier has tyres one meter wide and the buses cost $1.3 M each. I counted 12 while we were up there. Filled a drink bottle with the purest water I had ever tasted.
So. Many. People. And how much more are they accelerating glacial melt by running vehicles up the glacier?
"Take to complete tour with the icefield explorers. The guides tell you amazing things about the glacier. A super experience.You can skip the fare and visit of the glass walkway, which does not give you views of the glacier below you. A total waste of money and time"
Ride a tractor bus up onto a large glacier and walk around on top of 100 feet thick glacier. This is a unique experience. On a warm day you can approach small rivers of deep blue water melting on top of the glacier
Enjoyed the unique opportunity to travel onto the glacier on the amazing IceBreaker bus. Huge and impressive. Lovely and exciting tourl
Visited June 2016We were traveling from Banff to Jasper and due to its location we planned and visited this site on route.We bought a 4 part ticket which included this and the skywalk and as a result was cheaperYou get a time to go up the glacier The coach takes you for a short drive until you get on the ice explorerYou then get about 30 minutes on the ice for photo etc.The coach then goes to the skywalk before back to the centre. If you don't have the skywalk ticket you just keep on the bus.It was fun PeoplEnough said
Driving from Jasper to Banff and going through the ice fields was awesome -- a trip to be remembered!
"So glad that we were able to see the Ice Field. The experience was unique. A special designed vehicle was used and the driver, Matt was very funny. We love him.Stepping on the ice field was also a unique experience. Blue ice and clear water were pretty.One tip: very cold and flippy there!"
"This is an amazing 100 mile journey down the Continental Divide which separates the Western Rockies from the Eastern Rockies. There is just mile after mile of stunning mountain scenery on either side of the road. The Columbia Ice Field parkway was about half way through the trip. They have specially adapted coaches/buses that take you right onto the glacier, and you are able to walk on the Athabasca glacier in person."
"We visited the Columbian Icefields as part of our Scenic tour through Canada/Alaska. We were lucky that the day came out sunny and when we were on the icefield, the sun was shining bright so we got some beautiful photos of the glacier and the surrounding mountains. It was a great experience to go in the bus onto the glacier and be able to walk around and enjoy the scenery."
"This is a small piece of glacier, very close to the highway, You take their bus and then a special bus with very high wheels and big treads. First you go through hilly mud road, which gets quite steep at places. Then you drive over the glacier for a short time, get off, walk around view the beautiful scenery. But, I think this tour does not really support the global warming and environmental protection plans of Canada since these monstrous, gas guzzling vehicles with their hot exhausts will melt away the glaciers quickly."
"Parked in the closest lot and I walked up to the glacier. I had sturdy sandals on so was a bit concerned but got up there ok after a couple of rests, the high altitude makes it a bit harder.Anyway, at the top you. an walk a loop which doesn't get u very close to the glacier at all. Was disappointed, should have just taken a zoomed in photo from the main parking lot above."
Stopped by here for lunch on the way to Banff but was not sure what all the fuss is about. Would rather spend time looking at the lakes along the Icefields Parkway – they were more beautiful.
"We enjoyed our visit to the Columbia Ice Discovery Centre, despite the unusually foul weather. The team was terrific in seeing to everyone's needs. The Ice Explorers are impressive, and a fun way to travel to the ice field. Our driver was extremely informative, and happy to answer questions. Our only problem was the weather--when we arrived on the ice field it was about 12 degrees with a harsh blowing wind, sleet, and rain. Although we were allowed more than 30 minutes on the ice field, the conditions were so bad that most folks went out, took a couple of pictures, and returned to the Explorer soaked to the bone! Although the team explained that these were highly unusual conditions, it would have been nice to have been warned before we bought our tickets. Better yet, have some foul weather gear that folks could use in these extreme conditions. Would we do it again? Absolutely, but only on a summer day."
"This highway, filled with great stops and amazing scenery, has to be one of the best motorcycle rides. Stretching from jasper to lake Louise. Full of bends and turns through the Rockies it will surely please your riding bug."
"My wife and I had both walked on glaziers in New Zealand, we felt the price was too steep for this one. We just went to the look out at the base of the glazier for free and it was great! Well worth it and lots of money saved!"
"This is a very well organised trip, many people there but not too off putting. Amazing to stand on a glacier, don't forget to take a water bottle to taste that fresh, cold water - amazing. Guide was very informative and helpful - are there any Aussies left in Australia?! Restaurant, large cafe and of course a gift shop all on site."
Super amazing and a must-see! The icefields are astonishing. We took the tour aboard the ice trucks that drove us to the icefield where we were able to taste the glacier water and fill up our water bottles. The fact that the ice fields flow into 3 different oceans from that point is amazing. Bring a jacket though because it can be cold and windy.
We hired a car in Banff and drove to the ice fields - we didn't pre purchase tickets and it made no difference the queues were the same and all well managed though we drove round for a while to get a car park space . The guides were fantastic and informative and made the trip fun - it's very cold on the glacier especially in the rain - wrap up warm - we saw people in ballet flats and bare feet - not sensible - it's also quite slippy so wear sensible shoes . We did the combined package with the glacier experience and the sky walk - it was well worth it - the sky walk wasn't wildly thrilling but being scared of heights it was a bucket list must for me ! A beautiful drive from Banff and we stopped at Peyto Lake on our return to break the journey - breathtaking !
"Amazing experience. You take the special modified buses to the Glacier. It's about a 20 min journey to the glacier. Once you get to the glacier- you get about half an hour- to explore within the marked area. Great photo opportunities, experience walking on an ice block which is about 300 metres thick. It is very cold, so ensure you wear warm clothing including gloves. We went in June and it was snowing at the Glacier! Also ensure you wear proper footwear, as the glacier is slippery and you could potentially slip and fall. My son who is three thoroughly enjoyed being on the glacier and made a snow (...ice) man and snow angels. Make sure you take an empty bottle, so you can fill some pure glacier water!"
"This was my third visit to the ice fields, but the first time to the skywalk. We didn't really want to do the skywalk as I don't like the sensation of a see through floor. Unfortunately, you can't buy separate tickets, unless you visit after 8:30. I gave it a try, but didn't enjoy it for the reason mentioned. The ice fields are always great, although a silly woman stepped past the pylons (we were warned not to) and ended up thigh deep in glacier slush....don't do that! Our driver Mike was fun and knowledgable."
Seeing this Glacier makes hyou realise how insignificant and small we aere when facing nature in the raw like this. Friendly and knowledgable guides. Fantastic for photos and great fun on the vehicles taking you to the glacier. Wrap up warm!
We walked on the glacier and found it interesting. Need good walking shoes and warm clothes.The drivers that drove the vehicles were very pleasant and safe.
The gift shop and restaurants were packed. Bus ride to the ice explorer was short and informative. Ice explorer was amazing. Huge wheels with a locking transmission that kept it going slowly down a 32% incline. It still was a little scary. The ice was wet and slippery from the grading that had been done to keep it walkable. People would slip but I didn't see anyone fall. Laura drove our ice explorer and she did a great job and was very personable.
"This attraction was part of a package and was hailed as one of the highlights of our week long tour. We were underwhelmed. It is clearly a highly commercialised operation with up to 250 people on the glacier at any one time confined within a very limited area. It was a unique experience but we could not help feel that nature was being exploited in a way that might be detrimental. The operation was slick, we travelled 50 at a time in huge ice trucks and spent 13 minutes standing on the glacier. The cafeteria and visitor centre were fast and efficient, capable of handling large numbers. A fellow traveller commented on how much the glacier had receded since his last visit two years ago. It is worth doing as the views and landscape are stunningly beautiful."
"The visitors' center has movies, restaurants, park interpreters, and large gift shop selling everything from little souvenirs to T-Shirts - hats, books, winter parkas etc."
"My husband and I visited here 15 years ago , you could go out on to the glacier back then which was a neat experience . There were also markers from years of where the glacier had melted back . We could only find one from 1982 then another back at the parking lot across the highway . We thought it would be a neat experience for our three kids so we went back . Walked the trial and it is not accessible to go on anymore . Very disappointed and you can get nicer pics from across the road . Wouldn't have wasted the time stopping this year."
We actually drove from Canmore through the Bow valley parkway to Lake Louise then through to Jasper and onto Hinton. Hinton and Canmore have cheaper hotels because they are outside of the park. You actually would be missing something not going through to visit these towns. Hinton is 79 kms or 50 miles to the east of Jasper and Canmore is 22 kms or 15 miles to the east of Banff. The centre piece of this trip are the ice fields which Jasper and Banff both share. Don't just do half the drive you'll be cheating yourself.
"The landscape is amazing. Parked in the car park opposite the Columbia Ice Field Centre and walked up the hill towards the glacier. Had a jumper and jacket on and did not feel cold in June. Allow about 30-45 mins for this. Also walked up to the viewing deck of the Ice field centre, good photos from here."
"If you have the opportunity to go on the ice fields do, as this is a great experience. but you must wrap up warm."
You cannot have any idea of what a glacier is until you are actually on one. The ride to the Ice Fields was incredible we drove down an almost perpendicular hill and passed the glacial moraine to get to the foot of the glacier stopped and walked on ancient ice. At this point it was rather like a 'slushy' but the massive glacier was just up the mountain grinding its way down.
"This was amazing and well worth the drive to see it! You are standing on 10,000 year old ice. And when you see how much it has receded in the last 100 years it is scary! Brewster tours were great - shout out to Ness!!"
"There is a large crowd at every event, the tell me the have 5000 visitors a day. It is little wonder you tend to travel in convey. Nonetheless, it is largely worth it. The trip to the ice is a wonder if not a little chilly. The sky walk is spectacular and informative."
Not to be missed. It was an amazing experience. Our tour guide Stephan was really great. Plan to spend at least 2 hours at the icefields.
If you're short on time you might want to skip this. We headed there for the 10 a.m. opening but arrived at 10:30. It was already packed. It is a good 2 hour drive from Banff. 11:15 was the earliest bus we could get on and there is really no way to make it any more stream-lined. Each bus follows it's own schedule and then that bus empties onto the special icefield rig. Lots of waiting at each way point but we definitely enjoyed this part of our trip and standing on the glacier in the mountains was spectacular! In spring and summer a pair of rubber boots might be appropriate. My husband had running shoes and his feet got wet. Be sure to dress in layers as some found it cold. This along with the skywalk took about 4 hours from start to finish. For those arriving later the wait would be even longer so allow half a day.
"This highway runs from Jasper to Lake Louise. Stunning waterfalls, glaciers, lakes and mountains are at every turn. Athabascan Falls and Peyto Lake are must sees along this highway. We also stopped and Glacier Tour on the huge Ice Explorers."
"If you are anywhere near Jasper or Banff, just come to see this natural wonder, because it is dispersing. I join Brewster tour, you don't have to but they are pretty good in terms of planing and actual brought us up to the ice field."
"Wow, this was a cool tour. They take you right out onto the glacier in these huge vehicles. And the tour guides are very knowledgable and helpful. Ok, Zachary and Kyle were very cool, let's be honest. I learned a lot and really enjoyed this more than I expected to. Thanks! Oh, geez, eh!"
"Even though it's a bit pricey, a trip to the glacier was one of the highlights of our trip. They are very accommodating for wheelchairs which is great. Once on the glacier the wheelchair can't go very far but still get the experience of being on a glacier. The staff were very helpful and friendly."
"Plan to spend about 2-3 hours there. You'll do the glacer, then the skywalk. The glacier is fun to see and the ride to get there is just as interesting in the specially made vehicles with 5 foot tall tires. The only problem on the glacier is that there are so many people, it's hard to get a picture without others in it. It's still fun to see."
This is a site you must visit to see how the glacier over millions of years has formed an ever-changing landscape. Experience the ride up in an ice explorer before setting foot on the glacier. The views are spectacular. Be prepared for the temperature drop !
"This was a great day in Jasper. We took the Brewster tour of the Glacier. It's very well organized and really anyone can take this tour. They have special vehicles that can drive on the glacier, they're like busses. When youre on the glacier be sure to fill your water bottle with glacier water, its good to drink. You are walking on ice so wear good shoes. When on the Gacier, be sure to stay in the area your guide says to stay in, This is a glacier and it can dangerous. If you don't do the tour you can still have amazing views from the visitor center but I'd imagine once you saw the Glacier you'd want to do the tour. It's well worth it."
"From the travel on the huge Ice Explorer to the 20 minutes we had slipping around on the ice to just gazing at the rugged setting, we had a great time. We were surprised at what a small space was allowed for walking around and taking photos, but the less damage to the glacier, the better, of course."
"I don't think there is a way to do away with the crowds so just be prepared for lots of tourists, but we loved being on the glacier, filling our water bottle with fresh glacier water. And they the sky walk was really wonderful."
"We did this as a stop on an transfer from Banff to Jasper, well worth doing, the only thing was how busy it was, difficult to take decent pictures without loads of people being in the background, it would be good if less tundra buggys went up at one time. Our tickets had been purchased in advance and I would recommend doing this as there were lots of people queuing to buy tickets when we were there."
Easyly visible from the road Athabasca glacier is wonderful view. The short walk to few feet from edge of the glacier allows us to see the size of the remaining portion of the shrinking glacier.
I went with discover Banff tours and our guide Nicole was really informative and cared about everyone. We stopped at Various beauty spots on the way and even saw a deer. The actual walk is so worth the money as it's not everyday you get to walk on a glacier and drink fresh melt water. So thank you Nicole and discover Banff tour
"It was a lot busier than we expected and this was still not in full tourist season. That said it was a really good experience and incredably well organised. The cloud was low and we couldn't see the top of the glacier, it even snowed ice which was like needles hitting your face but it was amazing. The young man who drove us onto the glacier was good fun and very informative, he made it very interesting."
"When I say cool I mean it! This activity was scheduled for me and my travel companion on the last day of a 10 day tour, and it was a great way to end our vacation. By far its the coolest thing I've ever done in my life, and I am so happy I did. The Icefield is located a ways outside of Jasper, the town, but its so worth the drive. Once you arrive to the Icefield, you will be moved inside and there you can pay for your experience. Then, once you have your tickets, you'll take a short shuttle ride to the Ice Explorers. The Ice Explorers are huge and getting up, and into them can be a challenge. There are about 7 to 8 stairs and you may need some assistance if you are older, or if you have small children you'll want to be careful with them as well. Once inside you'll travel up and onto the Glacier. Sidenote, its very cool and breezy on the glacier, so you'll want to dress for the elements. Once on the glacier you will want to watch you step. Where you can and cannot walk will be clearly marked, as you cannot move beyond the orange cones, and I'd definitely advise you not to. There are also some chairs and Canadian flags that you'll be able to take photos with and everyone is willing to snap a photo for you, or help you navigate the slippery areas on the ice."
"Its a shame that all the major attractions are monopolised by Brewsters Travel and I did feel that their website and then customer service at location was pretty poor. Not set up for the overseas traveller on a tight time frame. In saying that the tour staff very fantastic and the tour was fantastic, so they do get the most important part right. It was snowing when we arrived to tour the Glacier and we thought that would lessen our experience, but it just made it different and it was awesome."
Take a bus and then transfer into a specially designed glacier vehicle.This is an attraction owned/run by Brewster Tours and definitely worth the stop. The glacier is an amazing experience to walk on. The driver was funny and informative and drops you off on the glacier. Everything is roped off for safety reasons. It is interesting to hear about the area originally covered by the glacier and what is left behind by it every year
we had a fabulous time visiting the Columbia ice fields and glacier. It was a great experience and really fabulous to see. Our guide was very informative. We also saw people walking on the glacier which was going to take them about half a day to complete. We got out the bus and posed for some photos but I was a bit scared that I would slip and hurt myself. Great experience and well worth visiting.
"Get there early, before ten. Later it is very crowded. Interesting to get to walk on a glacier and learn more about their formation."
Great experience but it is clear that Brewster tours which runs the place has decided to go with quantity over quality. I would be willing to pay a little extra for a more unique experience. Being herded around like cattle with thousands of other people is not my idea of fun. Go early or late but try to avoid the peak ours. It is insane. Had the feel of Grand Central Station during rush our.
"My husband and I spent an entire day traveling the Ice Field Parkway from Lake Louise to Jasper, stopping many times, and we still didn't see it all. The Columbia Ice Field itself is well worth the stop, however the Ice Explorer trip is pricey. It takes longer to get to and from the glacier than the time you get to spend walking on it. Also, you are limited to a very small area. If you have had experiences with winter weather (ice & snow) then I would say save your money and just enjoy the scenery."
"This was a Brewster Tour with Al and Jade as our bus guides. We had done a tour with Al and Jade the day before and really enjoyed them. It was cold and rainy but we got enough breaks in the weather to enjoy a stop at the Athabasca Falls on the way to the Icefiled. When we got to the Center where we later had lunch, Al made sure we who were returning to Jasper after the tour, knew where to meet our shuttle back to town. He and Jade were going to Banff from there. Riding the ""Tractor Bus"" onto the ice field was exciting. My husband filled a water bottle with water from the glacier while we were up there. Although it was really blowing and rainy when we walked on the Skywalk. it was still a great experience. Maybe not as intimidating since the raindrops blurred the view below a little. There was an attendant there using a squeegee to clean the surface. This is a must tour when visiting Banff and Jasper."
"The scenery is spectacular and wildlife abundant all along the way. If you have a 'climate change denier' in your family, perhaps s/he would be interested in seeing how far the glaciers have retreated so far this millennium. I was stunned in the loss of ice just in the two years since my last visit. Still pretty awesome, but also a great lesson in 'green'."
Take a bus and then transfer into a specially designed glacier vehicle.The driver was funny and informative and drops you off on the glacier but there is not that far to walk as everything is roped off for safety reasons.Take a cup to drink the freshest water in the world.Combined with Sky walk which is is an interesting experience if you like heights.
"Drove up from Canmore, I was going to skip this but at another guy at a stop on the drive up convinced me to go, I was glad he did. Across the street from the visitor center there is a road to a parking lot and you can hike up a viewing point about 15 min up hill and you can get about 300-400 yards from the glacier. There is a tour that takes you out on the glacier for about 70 bucks. Do it when are you coming back? Who knows in 20 years it may be gone!"
If you take the bus up to the toe of the ice field you will see cracks in the ice. Some cracks are turquoise and some are pinkish. Most of the glacier is over on the other side of the mountain so you would have to climb it to see the top and other side that runs for miles.
We want to touch the glacier by hiking to the edge but there was a fence there to prevent people going on the ice. The scene is very big and beautiful. Look around there were almost you are by yourself. Magnificent that is all I can say.
"Columbia Ice Field is actually an extensive glacier system that extends into several glaciers that fall in between mountain ridges. In particular, you are able to access the Athabasca Glacier by either hiking to the foot of it via a short trail or by doing the Brewster Glacier tour to ride an Ice Explorer bus onto the glacier. You can also view Saskatchewan Glacier by hiking atop Parker Ridge Trail. My family did both hikes atop Parker Ridge and to the foot of Athabasca Glacier. Both are different experiences, but worth it if you want to see glaciers without paying a lot to go on a tour. It was really chilly the day we visited Athabasca Glacier, but it was neat to get close enough to it, even though you can tell a lot of it has melted over the years. Highly recommend the hikes if you want to see the glaciers without spending money!"
"If you go to Jasper, don't miss the Columbia Ice Field. They take you from the visitors center to the glacier on a huge ice bus. The views of the glacier are magnificent. It snowed while we were there and that cut down the visibility a bit, but you cannot let the weather spoil your good time. The weather on the mountain is very changeable. If you don't like what you see, wait a few minutes and it will change. That is what happened to us. The weather cleared and we had a beautiful blue sky above."
"Gatekeeper shuttled non overnighters to parking lot 2, at bottom of about 70 stairs. NO ROOM ANYWHERE, maybe 1,000 people coming and going, oblivious to you or your car, never got to the building, no place to park, BUT, the view of the glaciers from here is so awesome it makes up for most of the irritation. Two 60+ disabled women found the stairs and the crowds and the non-existent parking to be a deal breaker, but if you can tolerate it- go for it."
We went on a tour. The organisayion is good but there were do many people that it was difficult to relax snd enjoy.
"Really well organised, everything worked like clockwork. Although you spend a lot less time on the glacier than you might think you'd want it's really enough. The skywalk and audio tour really enjoyable and informative."
This is the first time we walked on a glacier. There is a bus with a heavy tyre which drives up this glacier. On the way the driver gives info on the place. I expected it to be icy cold and wondered if it would be easy walk but it was a unique experience I enjoyed for the first time and it was truly spectacular!
Walking in the glacier is an amazing experience despite being the harsh weather. Must try the glacier water as our driver said one feels 5 year younger having that water.
"Booked tickets to the Columbia Ice fields, we thought it would be a great experience to visit the Atherbasker Glacier. This was over hyped by Brewsters, and was much like spending half an hour in a frozen coach park! The area of the Glacier you were able to go on was approximately 50m square, with several coaches full time of people being bussed in at the same time there was not much room to walk about. The only way you can spend more time on the glacier or see more of it is the if you pay to spend time with a guide. Whilst we understand there are health and safety issues to consider, we don't feel this was value for money."
This view of the ice fields and surrounding mountains is tremendous. Do not miss this. We did a Brewster travel bus for this tour. The only downside is the amount of people that are there. You will need reservations. Brewster does this. The disadvantage of Brewster is you are traveling with others who are not always on time.
"A must do in Banff. This is great to get as a package through any of the many tour agencies in the area. Banff tours, Jasper tours...just Google them."
"This is one of the most amazing places I have ever visited. It is awe inspiring. You can walk to the lower range of the glacier, you don't have to get the bus (we didn't, but I am certain it would be worth the trip and cost) It's a bit of a hike, not for the faint hearted or anyone with heart or lung problems. But once you get there, omg what a sight. We were lucky to hear the ice creak and groan, and see a small ice fall."
"We walked up to the toe of the glacier which was pretty cool, though very cold! You couldn't get very close this time of year for safety reasons though. If you have the funds the glacier experience is probably the way to go."
"Don't be put off by the buses parked opposite, but it's like most attractions here the earlier the better to avoid mass crowds. It's a steep walk to an area just in front of the glacier face that about 15-20 minutes . Can't see value in going out on a bus to stand on the ice. It's the view you've come to see and consider the markers that show just how far the glacier has retreated over the last 100 or so years"
"I have mixed feelings-it was amazing to see, but I wonder how much damage we as humans are doing to this glacier by driving/walking on it. Our driver was amazing (Mike) and it is so impressive. I think I would be just as interested in learning about the history and viewing it from afar to help preserve it. Included in the ticket is entry on the skywalk."
Amazing to ride on the glacier on the bus with the fat tires. So much snow. So cold in mid June. A real marvel to see. Take something warm to put on. A wool hat helps.
"A must do when visiting Canada, make sure you have warm clothing as it does get cold out on the ice even in august..."
"We were part of a tour group and didn't know what to expect. This was wonderful! We made advance reservations and had an 11am time to take the bus to their glacier vehicles. Then you ride in this til you get to the glacier. After about 20 minutes of taking in the beauty and slipping an sliding a little you do this routine in reverse. Once back you can enjoy the museum like basement and the 20 minute film. There is a restaurant, snack area and gift shop. We had soup and a sandwich and it was very good. I have to praise our Glacier guide Stephan for his excellent narration and lesson on the glacier and the surrounding area."
We first visited the Athabasca Glacier about 10 years ago and it was spectacular. We promised ourselves we would return some day.Sadly it is a poor shadow of its former glory.Once you hear the guides telling you the story of the glacier and how quickly it is receding year on year you feel like your witnessing the death of an old friend.Maybe the time has come to stop walking on the glacier and admire it from a distance.The area your allowed to walk is so small now and they just cram people onto it.I think it's just all about making money with no thought given to the grand old lady and allow her to die gracefully.
Really exciting to see a real glacier!! My husband I stopped twice and got some great photos. It is a must see on the Icefields Parkway!
It was nice to be in a cool/cold area in may. Very weird and so much fun at the same time. Impressive to be at that glacier and at the skywalk. For us it was worth the 80 dollars!
"This is well worth time and money spent to learn about glaciers, as well as a guided ride to the glacier. Andrew (NOT RICHARD :) did a excellent job! Be prepared...very cold; wear gloves and a warm coat!"
"It's not often you get the opportunity to walk on a glacier, or to drink pure glacial water. On the other hand I really worry about the impact that these heavy vehicles and constant human traffic is having on the rate at which the glacier is receding."
"A must do drive. Get to the center early, as if gets crowded with tour bus traffic. Views from Deck are spectacular and there is a video on lower level. Glacier buggy tour is very expensive, but might be worth it if you are not familiar with ice and snow conditions."
The ice field are fun.... Soooooo many tourists. But don't let the pit you off when you need to have a look. It was snowing when we went through twice. Loved it
"I have been to the Columbia Ice fields at least 3 times. On the first trip we went on the bus right on the glacier but I have never bothered to do that again because it is expensive and you can see almost as much for free. The drive to the glacier was the best part for me. Breath taking sights at every turn, wild life (a bear, big horn sheep, elk), waterfalls, lakes etc. The information center feels a bit like a greyhound bus station. I wish they had a nicer restaurant to enjoy the view."
The glacier itself is very dramatic in view of its vast size. This drama is somewhat diminished by the bus traffic across it and the debris that the glacier collects on its way. Avoid the centre near the glacier as it is poor quality and busy even in the low season.
"You just don't get to visit a glacier every day, so this experience was excellent. The trip is very informative and all staff members and tour guides were excellent. They knew their stuff and most polite. Take an empty bottle of water or two to taste the glacier water and take home with you. It does not taste like ANY water I have ever had. Try to visit earlier in the day, as the trip to the Glacier Skywalk is included and you will want to spend time there without being rushed."
Fascinating to see. Don't drive past! Even just stopping for a few minutes to take some photos is worth it. Didn't have time for the bus which goes up to the ice field but would love to try in the future.
Getting up close and personal with the Glacier provides an ideal opportunity to get out and stretch your legs - especially if you're on a road trip. The glacier is pretty majestic.
Visiting a glacier on a bus. What could be better. Drink the pure glacial water. Take amazing photos. Enjoy the scenery. Once in a lifetime opportunity.
Very interesting trip. A bit too pricey for what it is however. But the staff would nice and engaging and knew their stuff. Great views and photo opportunities bring loads of warm clothes though!
Allow at least a couple of hours to enjoy this unique Canadian Rockies experience. It is awesome as are the massive Ice Explorer buses which take you onto the Glacier. Great photo opportunity. Our driver was Chris who was a fount of knowledge A must-see whilst in the area!
"The glacier was slipperier than I anticipated. I had on good walking shoes, but a walking stick with a pointed end would have been helpful. I dressed warmly enough, but should have packed mittens. You aren't up on the glacier very long, but it's almost long enough. A few more minutes would have been good, but these are orchestrated down to the minute. Our guide was friendly and talked the entire way up and back, but he had a very thick Australian accent and was difficult to understand."
"This was a great trip well organised , enthusiastic staff and interesting . I would recommend this trip"
"We arrived late and missed the last shuttle. We walked to the ""toe"" in the strong wind and coldness, but it was worth doing! The sad thing is that the glacier is shrinking pretty fast."
"Stopped off here on our way to Lake Louise, it's well worth it. Take a jacket or something warm as the weather can be very different up on the glacier and make sure to use the restrooms before you get on the ice bus. The glacier and surrounds were spectacular, the bus driver/guide was very informative, you also get a skywalk as part of the tour, which is a short bus ride down the road but there are buses coming back to the visitors centre every 15 minutes, so your skywalk can be short or long. Great photos on the glacier, take a selfie stick."
"Travel on sis wheeled vehicle up onto the glacier Once you arrive at the safe point, you are given approx ten mins or so to get out of the vehicle to walk on the glacier Then get back on the vehicle returning to the starting pointExperience for me was OK but not thrilling"
"..boarded a bus to take the icefield bus..our driver nes was super friendly and fun-e ..with her jokes..she knew her stuff and did get along with our "" senior group"" well..
...just enough time to enjoy over ice...
highly recommended..!"
"The Columbia Icefield in Jasper, Alberta is a breathtaking sight to see. My family and I stopped at the glacier on our way from Banff to Jasper and it was stunning. The icefield is gigantic and really should be the 8th wonder of the world. If you’re going to Jasper, I highly recommend stopping by the glacier on your way."
"I was last at the Ice Fields as a kid. Of course, as a kid, it seemed much bigger. But reality, the ice field has shrunk so much... Go see it while you can, while it still exists.The ride out was longer than the few moments on the ice itself. Felt very rushed such a short time. And frankly, no where to go, just one cleared area, filled with tacky tourists pushing to get a picture, so almost impossible for me to get a picture of anything other than some other bloody tourist.I was disappointed overall, the value and expense do not match up. Been there, don't that, won't go again."
We bought a Explore pack from Brewster whom run 4 attractions in the Rockies of Alberta. It was well worth the money. Banff Gondola - Columbia Ice Field - Maligne Boat Ride - Sky Walk along the Parkway near the ice field. The ice field where incredible. The whole experience and the sky walk were great. A do not miss for sure on the Ice field Parkway.
The glacier is a unique experience. You take an ice explorer (a big bus type vehicle with huge tired) out to the glacier. Off the bus you can walk on the glacier but it does get crowded. And it's very cold. Our tour also included a skywalk (glass floor walk over the canyon). It's a good experience.
"Did on a 4 experiences included package, which made it seem a reasonable price.Great drivers - very funny and informative.Brought my geography lessons of 40 years ago to life.I'm guessing weren't at peak season, at which time I expect crowds would be really annoying, but OK, just when we went.An experience to say you've done it."
"Fantastic. Cold, dress warm. Amazing views , go early to beat crowds. Tall Mike entertaining and informative."
The Columbia Ice Field is beautiful. It is a short steep hike but is very windy and cold. Be sure to walk the loop to see the ice cave.
"It is overpriced and takes quite a bit of time especially as you have to purchase the skywalk too. However it is a worthwhile experience, because when else are you going to have a chance to walk on an ice field."
Very informative and something our grandchildren experienced with us. A very good family time! The views are magnificent and walking on the ice field is something we'll never forget.We the grandparents were here 39 years ago and to witness how much the glacier has receded was extraordinary!
"The ice fields are on the road connecting Jasper, Alberta and Lake Louise. This is one of the most scenic drives that you will find. Now with all that said -time is your enemy. If you drove straight through it would take at least 3 hours and that would be such a waste of beautiful scenery. You do need to plan ahead for this journey. Food/gas can be a challenge and expensive so we filled the gas tank before we turned onto Highway 93 and we took a picnic type lunch to eat at one of the many stunning viewpoints. We parked at the visitor center and got in the first of several lines to go out onto the ice fields. The bus only takes you so far and you transfer to the ice mobile and travel the rest of the way to the glacier. Water here is so pure and is that beautiful blue/green color. Fill your water bottle and drink away. YES, it does taste different without the chemicals that we are used to. We opted to do the skywalk. over the canyon. Not for those afraid of heights. I wondered what I was doing there. We did see some big horn sheep which made it worthwhile in my book."
To have the opportunity to drive and stand on a glacier is amazing and a once in a lifetime experience. The glacier Skywalk is well laid out and the audio guide is informative. The glass Skywalk enables you to step out over the river.
"The highway is stunning and worth seeing. The glacier is melting all the time. The centre overlooking the glacier is so busy that it is not a nice place to visit. Food is very rough and ready and by the time one has queued and paid all food is cold. The views outside and on the highway are incredible and if possible, miss the information centre!"
"It was like visiting a slushy field set in beautiful surroundings. We bought the Brewsters Package which included the Skywalk, lake cruise, gondola and the ice field tour. Not at all what I expected. Does make you reflect on the ecology of it all."
"This is a case where one must provide context to provide an informative review. I hope I can successfully do that.I can only rate this experience as a full 5 -Excellent because it provides such a unique opportunity for many travelers to experience a part of the natural world that they may never have the chance to do again. Having a major glacier at your fingertips and even to ride/walk out on to it is once in a lifetime for many.But context is important. A simple view from the parking area/visitor building can be stunning if the weather co-operates. I've had the opportunity to pass by about 10 times over the years and only twice has there been a nice clear view. So I hope everyone gets such a day for their visit. There's something about the Icefield, the air flow etc that I have been told the Icefield essentially has its own little micro-climate that ususally involves low hanging clouds. Clear days are to be treasured. On this trip while driving north to Jasper we had a nice partly cloudy day. Since this was the first time my kids were here, I was very happy they could take it all in. I let them know if they wanted to ride out on to the glacier we could do so a few days later on the drive back south. On that day the weather was not as co-operative but their main interest was to ride out and stand on the ice. It's a slow, plodding, time consuming trip but Brewster provides something that again is a unique experience.This is where it gets a little ticklish as I have never thought the excursion out on to the ice, uniqueness aside, was very worthwhile/compelling considering the time and cost. But it still wins those points for the unique experience. I would never discourage anyone from doing it but I think you will see what I mean. I certainly didn't discourage my kids and am glad it was their choice.As I left the choice to my kids, we did not book in advance. I think we visited in the last few hours of the onset of the peak summer rush. There were numerous busloads of tours, but comparatively few casual visitors as I think it was still a little pre-season. Thus I was extremely annoyed that we could not book a trip on to the ice without also being required to pay for the bundled Skywalk visit too without waiting 5 hours. But as long as we paid the extra Skywalk fee we could literally board in minutes to the glacier trip. I can't say anything bad about the Skywalk -- its an interesting structure; however, I also remember stopping by the roadside numerous times right there to observe a great view without needing to pay for it. You can't do that anymore. Something just doesn't seem right about this. But I'll spare the griping.Lastly the modern facilities are seemingly an improvement as this was my first visit in many years. Nice, well maintained facility, including expanded restroom facilities, but it seems mostly a building filled with new ways to get your money. I remember the nostaglic, deteriorating old Icefield Chalet and it's my memory of what a fitting stop here used to be including walking across the road to the glacier approaches. But modern society must move on."
"We had our thoughts about visiting the Athabasca Glacier. It is expensive, specialy as it is offered in combination with the skywalk. Ask for a tickett for just the glacier and forget the skywalk. Try to be there early in the morning or late on the day when it is not crowed. We where with 20 people on the glacier. During the day you can be there with more than 200 people and I can imagine the than the magic is gone!"
"We did the Columbia Ice Field as part of our tour booked with Rocky Mountaineer. We had no idea what it would be like. Good thing we bundled up in Jasper town before we left that morning, cause even though it was end of May, it began snowing furiously before we reached the Center at the base of operations. What a unique experience - taking the ice explorer up to the glacier! Our guide, Stefan, unpacked the significance of our journey (scientifically & naturally -- plus he had a sense of humor that helped!) When we reached the let off point on the glacier, it was snowing so much it was hard to see, but we ventured out & made it up to the Canadian flag (watching the cones, you must do this or risk falling into a crevice!) Truly a highlight of our two-week trip to Canada, plus an incredibly unique experience (since we are unlikely to ever visit Antarctica!) Highly recommend! The center down below offers two cafes - the full service line was too long for us, so we opted for the short (cash only) quickie line of pre-prepared items that actually served hot chicken noodle soup, which helped my brother, who had a cold! A tip - be sure to wear sturdy shoes & warm socks for walking on the glacier, We just had our raincoats & 'layers' but we did fine even in the swirling snow (the center was heated altho the ice explorer itself was a bit cold with everyone opening windows to get pictures!) Fantastic!"
Nice drive with wonderful views and wildlife. Saw (briefly) two black bears and treated to a ten minute view of a grizzly less than 50m away.
"When you do both the walk and the trip out to the glacier you have a couple of different tour guides on the busses. These guys were all excellent and passionate about ensuring everyone had a great experience. Our driver out to the glacier, Stefan, especially good with the kids and kept everyone entertained."
"Just visited the ice field. Kind of like being on the moon with the big people movers. Seniors need to be careful when walking on glacier. Stairs leading from parking area to ticketing area difficult to navigate for people with mobility issues. Restaurant not fancy, but adequate for sandwiches etc..Movie in basement not worth your time. If you are in Canadian Rockies you need to visit ice field. Lifetime experience."
Very pretty and windy! Nice ride up to the glacier but was a bit of a long wait for the snow coach to take us up!
"This was amazing to see and sad at the same time , so much of the glacier had melted since I've seen it in the early 70s. Save yourself 80 bucks, 3hrs bus tour (unless if your not physically able) and drive your car over to the parking lot and enjoy they walk along the trails. STAY ON TRAILS, don't wonder off, there are hidden crevices. Take loads of pictures, and take in as much of its beauty as you can, before it's gone (about in 3 generations time) skywalk is 32$"
A truly amazing experience for all those who enjoy geography and who want to gain a greater understanding of how vulnerable planet earth is becoming. Superbly organised and highly recommended.
"Seeing a glacier up close was great, but we also enjoyed the ride to in the ice coaches to and from the glacier. The place was very organized and staff was professional. The glacier water was also a nice experience. Try some!"
On our way to Banff we visited the Columbia Ice Field and had a good walk along the edge of the ice field. The wearpther was warm and it felt strange walking on the ice and having the sun shine down on my head.Please take the time to go to the Ice Field if you are on your way to Banff. You will not be disappointed.
"It was so busy and crowded out on the ice there seemed hardly enough time to have a proper look. The ride to the glacier in the big bus was fun, but I had always thought that the buses went a lot further into the ice, not stop at a car park with 20 other buses and hundreds of people. While it was kind of cool to get onto the ice I don't think it was real value for money."
Well worth doing if you have never been on a glacier. The vehicles in which you ride are amazing and the drivers full of information.
"This is a well run operation. You get bused out to the big ice five,d vehicles which are huge and then trundle uphill and down dale until you reach the glacier - in spite of its title this is not an ice field at all but a glacier. You get out onto the ice and have about 15/20 minutes to look around take photos etc., and then back on the vehicles again. Good fun and we took lots of good photos but beware it is cold and it is slippery as it is currently melting, so do not step in a puddle, you could disappear!"
A trip to the ice field and sky walk were a birthday treat while here on holiday. It is a must as it won't be here forever and just the scale and the history were very interesting. Take a coat as it may be hot but it's not up there. Great place.
"At the icefields you can take a guided tour onto the glacier, which can be very cold, or park in the lot at the base of the glacier. From the parking lot you can walk to the toe of the glacier and then up and along a marked path. For your own safety be sure not to go off this path. The walk fro the parking lot to the toe gets longer overhear as the glacier recedes and this is evidenced by the makers that show the position of the toe over time. It is clear that the recession is accelerating. In my lifetime the toe was much closer to the highway."
"For folks from tropical countries it's a rare experience to stand on a glacier even if it's for about 20 minutes and together with hordes of people taking photos or grabbing the ice to make snowballs. Getting there is quite an ordeal with the conveyor belt process of rushing to the washrooms, standing in line for the confusing but rather tasty lunch offerings, spotting the right Brewster bus to take you to another station where you are driven to the snocoach that takes you down and up to the glacier. However both drivers are lively and funny and it's not as cold on the glacier as it is in the bus bays when it is raining and slush threatens your footsteps."
"Although the gletcher is becomming smaller and smaller it is still a spot you can't mis.
Wear good shoes and warm close because although it is warm down the gletsjer it is very windy and cold up high."
Ness was our tour driver. She has a great sense of humor and engages the tourists. The people mover was something that you see in the movies.
"While for me it was worth every penny of this high-priced ""adventure"" to drink untreated wild glacier melt, I cannot in good conscience recommend others do the same. I'm past my child-bearing years and have lived a good life. Please use your good judgement about drinking untreated water. Having said that, if you have it on your bucket list to stand on a glacier, do it soon. They may not last long. Unless you want to rope up to 4 friends with crampons and ice axes, this is probably a less expensive, much safer way to visit. We went with little kiddos and grannies and had a swell time. Even so, DO wear boots or sturdy shoes and bring rain jacket, hat, sunscreen and water, as you would on any hike. You'll enjoy it much more. (The lady in the strappy shoes definitely did not get as much for her money as the rest of us.) Surprisingly, the best part turned out to be the Skywalk. It looked goofy, but turned out to be more awesome than I thought. If you don't want to stand on glass and look down at 900 feet of air between your feet and the bottom, you don't have to. The view is fabulous anywhere along, and there are tons of nature exhibits with great educational info all along the walkway leading up to the glass. Get the free audio tour. It's okay. And go ahead and look down. It's okay. You know you want to. Just do it."
This was our third time to visit the Athabasca Glacier at the Columbia Ice Field. It used to be possible to purchase a ticket for the Glacier tour separate from the sky walk (glass walkway over the nearby canyon). Now these are sold as a single combination ticket. We always enjoy the glacier tour and (to our surprise) also enjoyed the sky walk. Expensive but worth the splurge.
"We wanted to go onto the ice on the special vehicles, but found we would have to pay for a joint excursion, including the Glacier Skywalk. (Tip: if you go there at 4 pm, you can pay for, & go on, the glacier only.) We did do both, although some in our group didn't want to experience the Skywalk (a bit scary for some). Where else can one walk easily on a glacier?"
Though it has receded a lot over the years the Columbia Ice Fields never disappoint. Stunning views of the glacier is a must see. You can actual walk on the glacier too through tours that are offered.
"On a very clear day with a gorgeous blue sky, the ice field was a stunning contrast. We didn't have to wait long to catch a bus over to the icefield. The ice explorer vehicles were an amazing way to travel to the icefield. We also had the experience of drinking running water off the glacier. An added bonus to the glacier visit was the trip to the overlook. It was a little scary to be out on an overhang well above a major gorge, but the view and the experience was well worth it."
"We visited here twice on our way too and from Jasper/Banff, and were not dissapointed, the mountains and snow are absolutely stunning. There is a large restauraunt and cafe there with parking and restrooms. We only had a coffee as there were so many coach parties there that it was impossible to get a seat, let alone food! There is an i pressive viewing area outside with a lot of seating, so we sat there soaking in the views, and spotting some climbers on the mountain."
The Athabasca Glacier is without doubt worth a look. The Brewsters Tour onto the glacier is a bit of a gimmick in my opinion. I hate standing in lines and being squished onto buses and that's exactly what happened here. We spent exactly 15 minutes actually on the Glacier and it was a bit of a waste of time really... it was raining quite heavily and with SO many people crammed into the tourbus the windows were fogged so much you could barely see out! My advice is to read up on the Glacier and its history before you get to the Ice Field and then just look at it from the Centre rather than wasting your money on the Tour.
We stopped for a tour of the ice field en route from Jasper to Banff. It was worth the trip to see the glacier. It was very windy and alternated between rain and sun. Dress warmly and wear boots or running shoes at a minimum (no sandals!).
I loved this experience. The ice explorers are really impressive and it was fun to get pictures and throw snowballs with my friends whilst on the glacier!
Lovely scenery on the drive up. Nice to see the glacier - but should we really be taking trips onto it as it is shrinking so fast? There is only one place to eat - I won't call it a restaurant or a cafe as it was so dirty and offered such ghastly food. The worst food in my whole Canadian trip and expensive for what it was too. GRIM.
This was a beautiful drive into Jasper. The icefields can be seen from the road but there are several great stops for views of the icefields as well as waterfalls.
WE did not go on icefield as we came from Québedc and lives in snow country for most of the year but the galcier is a must see... We could drive just beside it and had lunch...We could also had gone to it walking...nice to do...
I would highly recommend the Columbia Ice Field. On a clear day the views are incredible from the Skywalk Glacier!
Fabulous views in all directions. Have your camera battery fully charged. Self drive was a great way to see heaps - including some bears and elks.
"We haven't felt the urge to spend a bunch of cash riding one of the red coaches onto the glacier, but we have done the short uphill hike to the base of it (for free) and it was interesting. There are date markers where the receding glacier used to stand."
It was worth the visit but a shame to see how much it has retreated of the years glad we got to see it while it is still here to see
"Rode regular tour bus to staging area part way up alongside the glacier on gravel road then transferred to glacier capable bus, can handle about 40 passengers, with HUGE tires. It went down a very steep grade of about 35% to the glacier. We stopped on the glacier and walked in a protective area. The tour operator has plowed a large snow wall from the glacier surface to keep the curious from walking on the glacier in potentially an unsafe area even though they are reminded to stay in the protective area. One can see where the glacier has a steep descent from the Columbia Ice Field there are many HUGE crevasses. As many as 5 glacier busses were in the safe area at the same time. We saw a stream of clear water flowing on the glacier due to melting. The snow wall is high so it is hard to see over it, some areas are low enough that one can see the crevasses further up the glacier at a distance of perhaps 0.5 mile."
"This is one of the most spectacular drives you can take. There are many lakes, waterfalls & glaciers along the way. We saw some wildlife along the way too."
On the day we were showing a friend aroundWe could only buy the combined ice fields and glassWalk ticket while both very well done the bus goes straightFrom the ice fild to the bridge no bathroom stop and no bathroomAt the bridge so after the cold we had to take the bus straightBack from a quick walk at the bridge either let people getOff and catch a later bus ot provide a bathroom at bridge.Sit infront of ice cat you will see why loved it
Stunning easy to get to well worth the stop. Even if you just admire it from the sunny veranda. But add in the tour of the glacier skywalk and it takes the day to another level. Visit the gallery downstairs to learn about how the hotel was built and all about the famous movies filmed in the area. How many times in your life can you walk on a glacier?
The best day out. Go to the ticket office and get your tickets for the bus ride. Meet the driver and jump on the bus. The bus drives across the road where you offload and load onto the ice bus. Low geared and large tyres for driving on the ice. There is a steep decline before arriving on the glacier. Hop off and walk around. Be sure to follow the guides directions about safety. Don't walk behind the buses and don't cross the stream as the glacier is unsafe. Spent all the time exploring the glacier.
"You really can't comprehend how large this glacier is until you see it in person, and for yourself:). Look at the photos and see how small the buses appear!Plan to spend a few hours here, more if you want to take the tour and experience the ice yourself. You can spend as little as 10-30 minutes, if that's all the time you have."
"Basically a genned up tourist stop by Brewster to fill a need by the tour companies to have a midday stop for lunch for their guests. You got hordes of buses going both directions (North/South) filled with Japanese, Korean and British tourists needing a place to have lunch and stretch the legs a bit. Brewster saw the need and filled it. Kudos to them, so they built this humongous ""Columbia Icefield Discovery Center"" with lots of indoor space to get out of the weather, 2-3 places to eat and a small theater. Quite impressive really and the deck has a nice view of the glacier and surrounding mountains. If you just stopped here and had lunch, got you photo's and maybe checked out the theater for the 30 minute or so film that would be enough, but if you're with a tour group you are going to packaged and processed onto a big shuttle bus, taken up to the transfer station and then get off and then back on the big Ice Explorer for you trip to the glacier. After a 15 minute ride you get to the glacier, basically the turnaround point for the Ice Explorers, and then informed you have 20 mins to explore the parking lot. You're on the glacier at this point, but you're not allowed to exit the turnaround area and go out because it is too dangerous. Then back on the Ice Explorer to the transfer point, off/on to the shuttle bus and then you are forced to go to the Skywalk. You have to purchase both tickets, I'm sure this is for efficiency more than anything as it allows the shuttles to stay in a loop and not have two distinct hubs, one for the glacier and one for the Skywalk. It is not for me to say what anyone person would get from the glacier experience, during good weather maybe you get a terrific view of the glacier and the driver/guides do a good job of relaying timely information about the plants and terrain that you are passing. The view from the Skywalk was not very good, at least when I was there in May, but the engineering of the Skywalk itself is quite impressive."
"lovely to visit the receding glacier. was once covered by forest (so much for man-made global warming) and then the glacial ice encroached. now it's receding again. you'll need to set aside a couple of hours for this at least. they have tied in the new ""skywalk"" tour and have added the cost to the excursion. so be prepared to pay $80 pp. even if you don't do the skywalk. they say that this site may not be here in 70 years so it was definitely worth it."
"Very disappointed with visit here. Totally over commercialised and could really do with a drastic revamp. Oriented to large tour parties, coaches by the score. Coach rides to the glacier which cannot be environmental. Very 'Asian' oriented food menu not to everyone's taste especially late morning when we arrived. Toilets dirty."
The Columbia ice field tour is great for the family. It's very safe and pretty fun in the bus they use to take you up on the glacier. Kids will love it. Guides were very knowledgeable and friendly. We even got to kneel down and take a drink of the freshest water you will ever taste. Bring a water bottle! A great short little tour which you can also pair up with the glacier skywalk which is nearby.
The Ice Fields & The Glaciers will not be around forever so do yourself a favor and check this out.The ride over in the massive Ice Explorer Vehicle is an awesome warm up for the main event.It can be cold & windy so bring a jacket and while you're at it bring an empty plastic bottle to fill up with the cleanest coldest water you have ever tasted! There is not much else to do there besides the water and AWESOME pictures but then again you are on a glacier!! How many of your friends can say that?
"The weather was grey and drizzly so we did not have the benefit of seeing this ice field in glistening sunshine.
I do not think the trip is worth the money."
"This is something you must see before it has totally melted. One realizes how fast the glaciers are melting when you see the markers with the years marked, showing how far the glacier used to go. We read millions of people depend on this glacier for their source of water."
"Take the ice field tour tour, but also take time to hike up to the glacier as well if you can. can be steep at times, but amazing when you get there."
"It was very busy when we visited in August, loads of tourist, which is great for the local economy, facilities were really good for that amount of people going through. We did the skywalk which we understand had only recently opened and really enjoyed it. We had a reasonable lunch, again reflecting on the amount of people going through a well run organisation although very impersonal and claustrophobic"
"It's a lifetime experience to visit the Athabasca glacier or the Columbia ice field trip. They have special vehicle which drives us to the top of the ice field through the rough and steep terrain of the Rockies. One we reaches the top, we could move around over the ice field and had magnificent view of the mountains and snow from the top. It's a bit expensive to get to the top because of the high price ticket of the special vehicle which takes us to the glacier, but I think it's worth it once at least in a lifetime to walk on the glacier or ice field."
"I thought it was going to be absolutely freezing up there, with high winds and all this crazy stuff you see in movies, but no, it was calm and relaxing. It was 70 degrees outside, on the day I went so that really messed my head up. In addition to that, the visuals on the ride up there, and then the actual stop where you get off on top of the glacier, are breathtaking. They've carved out a little area for people to be able to walk on, and then you can see it goes higher up, although you can't get up there, because it's sectioned off, but the view up there is just going to mess up your brain. The colors and scenery pop out so much up there. It's very bright, wear shades and for God's sake don't drink that water that is flowing, although you'll be tempted to. I saw people doing that, I'm not sure that's a good idea."
We stopped but did not do the normal touristy things. We walked up to near the base of the ice field. You stop quite a bit short as the signs say it can be dangerous. Interesting to see the various points over the years where the ice field used to be. A beautiful sight for sure and well worth a stop to get out stretch and take some pictures.
The ice field from the road is actually quite unattractive. As the ice recedes and we move away from the last ice age the debris of glacial weight us all that is left on the barren field. A remarkable illustration of global warming whether you believe this is a result of mans ignorance and industrial pollutants or the simple cyclic effect of nature over million of years we are definitely getting warmer. Truth is I guess is a combination of the normal warming cycle we are in and have been since the last ice age accelerated by mankind's wilful destruction of our resources (greed) but hey we'll never stop that. Nature will win when's she's had enough and that WILL be a big shout.
"Visiting the Columbian Ice Field and the Athabasca Glacier is a must do when travelling the amazing Ice Field Parkway.You buy your tickets for the Brewster Glacier adventure tour on the snow mobile at the Icefield Information centre for $115 for 2 adults.Go early as it gets very busy.Our tour was fantastic and informative, we got to spend 23 mins on the glacier fantastic."
"What can I say, nature at her very best. Takes you into an entirely different world, clear glacier, sun, mist, mountains, absolutely stunning"
We did a photo stop as it was late in the day. Incredible!!! Would like to do the tour bus that takes you across the field next time.
"There's a dense field of great attractions in the Rocky mountain parks of Western Canada, but this is a real highlight, and is - along with the nearby glacier skywalk a logical part of the icefields parkway drive between Banff/Lake Louise at one end and Jasper at the other.For the energetic folks, the hike is probably well worth the extra effort, but the bus permits almost everyone to get out onto the glacier itself, which really is incredible. I've attached a couple of pics from our visit last summer to give you an idea."
"We really enjoyed the visit to the Ice fields, but the $50 price tag to take the bus up to the glacier is really steep when you could do the walk in an hour. We abandoned the bus and ended up walking back down to enjoy some fresh air and exercise."
The tour was beyond awesome and remember to drink the melting glacier water. It just refreshes you and for once you'll know what fresh water tastes like.Keep a warm jacket as it gets cold. We went there in April may timeframe last year. The tour takes about an hour and we did it on our way back to Lake Louise.
It is quite amazing. The glacier does not look that big until you see all the big glacier buses on it. The water is so clear and fun for a snow ball fight!
Take the bus up or hike over. Either way you will have a wonderful view of the most spectacular peaceful views. The icefields are like nothing you have ever seen before.
We took an Columbian ice fields glacier adventure to walk on the ice of the glacier. This was unforgettable and a must do. Take a cup/bottle so you can drink from the thawing glacial water. The bus drivers/guides are very informative. Don't forget a couple of dollars tip to your guide.
Great set up and awesome experience. Highly recommend staying at the hotel and waking up with the glacier. It's reasonably priced and the restaurant is good. Alam from the restaurant made our trip.
"It's a great place to stop along the highway. You don't have to do a tour but you can stop in the vistor centre and look around, the patio area offers a great vantage point to take some photos. It's an incredible site."
"We arrived in early May before the tourist crush hits this part of the Canadian Rockies. The scenery was breathtaking, almost surreal. We hiked up as far as we could with our limited gear and I can say my wife and I will never forget the spectacle of this place! If you ever go this way in late spring, don't miss the Ice Fields Parkway!"
"We did not the glacier tour as part of an organised tour, the process of moving large groups up the glacier is done with precision & safety. Our tour guide was Thomas & he was fantastic. A really organised trip"
Great fun climbing the bottom of the mountain near the ice. Stop off at the visitors centre for some photo opportunities.
"The drive from Banff National Park to Jasper National Park via The Icefield Parkway on the month of March is amazing, simply breathtaking. Beautiful views of snow capped mountains is endless. It's was a winter wonderland!! One of the Must do drives in your lifetime!??"
"With a geology and terrain analysis background, this place is heaven, but either way, very interesting and beautiful for anyone. A must - see.
Very friendly and entertaining staff makes for a great tour of the glacier and skywalk."
"We arrived late, at around 17:30 and the tour office was closed so walked to the toe of the Glacier ourselves. To be honest it was no better than seeing it from the tour centre opposite. You can't get too close to the ice because of the danger, and the views are better from further away. The walk is a bit steep and slippery, not far but you need decent shoes. Do the walk if you want to say you have been to a Glacier, otherwise just look at it from the tour centre."
"We drove the Columbia Ice Fields Parkway from Banff to Jasper and the whole drive is so spectacular. I believe the Columbia Ice Field is an area of glaciers along this road in Jasper. At the Athabasca glacier you can walk right up to the foot of the glacier. It's a long walk and getting longer due to the glacier retreating. It's just awesome to be there, very windy, chilly, and so beautiful in every direction!"
"This drive is awe inspiring and we knew it was going to be good but better than expected. We had a mixture of weather sun, rain/sleet, cloud and snow and that didn't matter. Many good photo opportunities. We took the Brewster tours which was really good and guides are very informative. Being up on the glacier was amazing and will come back when able to do the glacier walk. They now include the Skywalk as part of the tour which we didn't want to do but the 8yr old loved it. Recommended as a unique experience."
Never miss this fantastic attraction. You will walk on a real glacier! View from the glacier is something I never had experienced before I took the bus ride to the glacier!
History and Geography enthusiasts will love this. As will all who pass this terrain. Glaciers 1000s of years old and a photographer's delight! If you haven't stopped here and admired the beauty of nature..you have missed a great sight!
Great tour to do on a huge bus especially made for the ice fields. Adam was our driver and guide and was very informative .
Absolutely a WOW moment in a terrific visit to the Icefields parkway...words don't do this location justice but I'll try. Surrounded in front if you by multiple glaciers and snow fields it is a site you won't ever forget...
We had a BLAST going to the Ice Fields with Brewster. The staff is friendly and well-trained. The views are stunning. The glacier is amazing too (even in a cloudy day). A must for anyone visiting Jasper/Banff.
Very nice stop between Banff and jasper. We went in April2016 and the snow was still there and the day is fully sunny. It was windy and cold at the field only but otherwise nice weather. Enjoyed it.
I had never expected to see such a wondrous sight as these millions of year old ice fields. Their melting has escalated beyond our understanding.
"From Banff to Jasper on the Ice Field Parkway is one of the most spectacular roads I have ever been on! Do it, you won't be sorry."
The Columbia Ice Field with the Athabasca Glacier is an awe inspiring place to visit. Going up on the ice near the glacier is totally awesome. You get to drink the melting ice and play in the snow too. Totally loved visiting the ice field.
"Great few hours on the glacier, well organised and informative guides.....the food in the visitors centre is poor to average"
Visited as part of the Rocky Mountaineer tour itinerary it was a breathtaking view of the glacier and ice field just travelling in the trucks was an experience in its self but on arrival it was outstanding well worth a trip definitely recommend
"This is a MUST DO for your trip. Drop off a person to stand in line for tickets inside while you park the car. The Glacier Icefield Walk will NOT be around forever. It is a once in a lifetime experience. Take a cooler of food and drinks when you leave Banff or Jasper because there is no where to eat or get something to drink on the drive between Banff and Jasper; unless you want overpriced food at the discovery centre after your tour. We had cheese, crackers and ham from the grocery store in Banff in a portable cooler with drinks; so, after the tour we had a picnic over looking the glacier we just walked on. FABULOUS."
Driving from Lake Louise to Jasper was so beautiful. Endless mountain vistas and glaciers and rivers and creeks with views that were movie-like gorgeous! We were stopping almost every 5 minutes to take pictures. What an unforgettable drive!!
"Everything was perfect and on time. Staff very helpful and nice.
Buses in very good conditions.washrooms nice. Gift store kind'a poor but well i Jasper or Banff theres lot of them."
We drove from Canmore to Jasper and the drive along the ice fields and parkway was spectacular. The views and scenery are truly breathtaking. With lots of stop points to take pics. Its a nice drive ( drove during spring) because the roads aren't too steep and winding. We arrived at the Brewster tour center and took the ice field glacier tour and it was cool. You can fill up your bottle with glacier water and stand on the largest glacier. Its a cool trip to do once in a lifetime :) good for all ages
"This was the best part of our road trip in BC and Alberta. Driving through snow topped majestic mountains and glaciers, sometimes wild animals roaming around with spectacular views, it's just like a dream~!! It's difficult to explain, recommend to drive your self and feel it."
"I feel so lucky to have had the privilege of visiting this great wonder. I hope to return in the summer when the snow has receded and the ice is more visible. But in any season, this is a must. Apart from the icefield, the surrounding scenery is spectacular..."
"Go to this place. Stop! Take in the entire geological historical reality of the fish bowl we live in. It is breath taking. The walk to the fields is a great stretch after being in the car or bus for a time. You Can walk along what used to be the ice fields and the historical journey is fascinating . Near the fields there are spectacular views of mountain peeks, lookouts and flowing rivers."
"Great time at the icefields. Thebus ride over was quick,clean. The time spend on the fields was just long enough."
This drive on Route 92 between Jasper and Lake Louise is unbelievable. Words or pictures could never do it justice. Wish I would have had time to explore more. There were also Hostels along the trail. Was surprised to see that ski trails were all still open. If you get a chance don't turn it down.
Hiked to the toe of the Athabasca Glacier. We started on the smaller trail to the left but then we climbed and cut across and made it to the edge of he glacier. We made sure not to walk on any of it - as it's dangerous to do so at this time of year. A great hike though and you can observe a number of geologic features. Based on where the terminal moraine is now - you can really tell how much the glacier has receded. There are also lots of striations visible. The are cause when rocks are trapped under the glacier as it advances. The rock gouges into the rock beneath and leaves the striations in the direction of the glacier's advance. A neat hike but a little challenging due to uneven surfaces.
So firstly this is purely a glimpse as you drive up from Lake Louise to Jasper but it is stunning and you seriously don't understand how deep the ice is. If memory serve I think the guide said 100m plus. Well worth stopping for a photo but you have to remember you are in the middle of nowhere and that is something quite special in itself!
"They don't open until May, I believe. So not much to see since there is snow all around so hard to tell what/where the glacier end/begins! It's not a wi tear attraction for sure but the drive there is spectacular! Wish we could have seen it. Hmmm have to make a trip in the summer:)"
"Great to see an glacier up close, but very crowded with minimal time on the glacier itself. Also, you cannot go very far up on the glacier, unless you pay for the tour that does so. Still, a great experience, but it will be a while before I do this again."
"A spectacular spectacle for any to behold. Another one of nature's awe inspiring creations, the glacier Will not disappoint. My beauty wife, myself and our three love creations opted out of the ice bus tour to go for a little self tour like many do. As you drive up toward the glacier parking lot you will notice markers stating the various points at which the freezing giant once sprawled. It's a bit sad to think that one day this majestic ice block will be no longer. But I digress.... Park your vehicle and depending on the time of year, and because you are in the mountains and are about to pay tribute to the ice God's, and ice is cold, bundle up a bit for your brief trek up. The hike will again reveal where the slab once rested at certain periods and it is receding at an alarming rate these days. It may be crowded but not to worry, nature loves all who love her so be patient, what's the rush. I did say that the glacier is shrinking but it will still be there long after your gone. Like most adventures outside, epic or short they are bound to bring anyone to life. When we first arrived our kids weren't to thrilled to have to go for a walk out into the brisk chill of the late Autumn breeze....not to mention we had to pry the younger two from their naps. But, after a few minutes on the trail they turned into little fearless explorers and the world was once again their oyster. Jumping and running and climbing and everything in between I too felt like a kid again because face it, nature's embrace is everyone's happy place! Now as for the glacier itself, there are signs and (meager) barricades to dissuade the public from going onto the ice which is a not a terrible thing. Although the warning is there many a folk still venture out onto the ice, ourselves included. I am in no way saying fit anyone to do this, I am simply stating our experience. Use your own discretion. Respect the glacier and its inherent dangers, nature is nurturing but we all know how deadly she is too.We gingerly climbed up the slippery slope (not very far) keeping the little ones in hand and reveled in the beaming sun coming down on the glistening surface making a great day even brighter. Needles to say, the sights are amazing and the slight risk was worth the experience for us. Safe and happy travels."
Columbia Icefield is astounding! It is a must do! Make sure to take the tour up the glacier - it's a most memorable experience ever!!
This place is amazing! Views are incredible! We enjoyed every second of it. Visited this when we drove from Jasper to Lake Louise.
"This is a geologic, geographic, and historic adventure. These are ice fields. As a somewhat local tourist I've been here many times. I never miss it. The ice fields change everyday. It's a big walk unless you go with one of the tour operators. Either way is fine. But don't miss this as its not something you can see just anywhere."
"Being someone fascinated by different geological features, this is something I had to see, so my review might be biased as well. It was an awesome experience able to walk on glacier. The bus ride to the glacier is another fun thing. Not often will you get to ride a bus in such a steep path, and on top of of it the bus goes over the glacier as well.We also had our 3 year old, who had a great time there. Make sure you take an empty bottle to get some pure glacier water."
Everyone should see the Columbia Ice Field at least once in their life. Breathtaking. An amazing feat of nature.
"Recently my wife and I met up with our two boys in Calgary for a SKU week in Jasper. We drove from Calgary to Jasper through the Ice fields. It's spectacular. Be sure to check the weather before departing beyond Lake Louise, choose a sunny day,and have snow tires. In the pass, with blowing snow, drifting can happen quickly. It is well worth the drive. Likely the most magnificent scenery I have seen anywhere in Canada. A must do, takes 5 hours or more, depending on how often you stop."
1. it costs me much... more than $50 bucks for funny bumping ice car.  you can see and stay at ice field more less than 10 min.  i don't it's worthy of getting ticket but.. it would be okay just 1 time in a life time.
"Experience worth your time & money. The bus tour guide was fantastic, in fact they are all fantastic, very friendly, entertaining & knowledgeable. You'll learn how the ice was formed. The glacier was the highlight of our trip. Even thought its very cold up there, i managed to explore the place while wearing just short & t-shirt & my fave snickers shoes. Unforgettable experience tho!"
"I do not have the words to describe just how breath taking and amazing this drive is...do yourself a favor and drive it.
We did it at the end of winter so there was no traffic...just perfect!!"
"The drive between the ice fields and banff or jasper (which ever way you're coming from) is gorgeous!! The drive was half of the fun. We didn't actually take the bus out to the ice field because it was a clear day and you could see it from the road. Also because it's slightly pricey. There's a path that takes you close to the glacier anyways, unless it's really muddy or lots of snow."
"I have passed this beautiful columbia icefield highway for 3 times and still love it, love it! In my opinion it should be included in one of most beautiful place in the world :)"
fascinating it was truly breathtaking to see this place especially this time of the year well worth seeing if in Alberta Jasper or Lake Louise
"The drive alone was extremely beautiful. When you drive up to the ice field, you can see other visitors and how tiny they are compared to the ice fields. Very beautiful."
Booked this tour with the company just down the hill and it was a fantastic experience!Love the feeling of walking on an glacier and drinking glacier water. The only thing which needs to be improved is the leisure time on the glacier. 10 mins is far from enough.
"There are just not enough superlatives to describe the beauty of driving the Icefields Parkway in winter. Its majestic, magical and stunningly beautiful. Photos just don't do it justice."
It's a unique experience. You can walk on glacier! The only drawback is that we were allowed only 15 minutes on ice. Bring a bottle to collect ice water of over thousands years old.
"So, the weather is awesome this time of year. Although it is in the 50s forecast in the morning, as you get closer to the beautiful icy vistas, peaks, glaciers, etc, It WILL feel like mid-30s, which is no problem if you're pumped up for an adventure. The Icefields Parkway is endless and I don't regret a single moment, nor the gas it cost me to drive from Fullerton California to get her. It's unique, very family-friendly, and so vast, that in sections, you'll practically have the place to yourself. Just go early. No tours, no nada...just DO IT independently !"
"We did not take a tour, we did the self guided walk. We could not access the glacier itself due to receding. It was cool (yet sad) to see the markers on the walk there, marking where the glacier was years past. Also while we walked toward it we noted the weather changes, culminating in snow at the bottom. Although we used a remote to take photos, and watched the lens open and close, our photos magically disappeared (magnetic force block?) who knows, but it was exciting to see"
A great place to stop and learn about Glaciers both at the Centre and also on the Snow Coach Tour up on to the Glacier itself. I come back every year and am always struck with the changing beauty and continue to learn something new each year.
"There are not many places left on this planet, where an inexperienced tourist can ride and walk on top of glacier. So don't miss it! The machinery you'll ride is unique, and the views of blue ice that you can touch are incredible."
To be able to ride out and walk out on these glaciers is an amazing experience. Watch out for the crevaces! Not too sure about global warming after being here!
Pretty amazing spot to visit. You can actually walk up and across the Ice Field! A great spot for photos and take a walk.
"It was a lifetime's experience as out specially designed bus, the Ice Explorer, drove onto the Columbia Ice Field! From the sprawling Visitor Centre, well provided with restaurants, washrooms etc., a normal bus takes you to the stand - about four minutes drive - from where you change over to the Ice Explorer. The journey itself on this special bus is very exciting, as the bus navigates steep gradients to reach the ice field formed by the Athabasca glacier. In both the buses the drivers gave lively commentaries on the history and geography of the region. We were lucky to get a lovely, sunny day and it was an amazing experience walking on the fresh snow. Special snow shoes are not necessary. There is an ice-melt stream running across the glacier which is said to be the fountain of youth. We were handed small paper cups by our guide cum driver to drink the ice-cold, pure water and we all had cups full with the hope it would work for us!"
"This was great fun, the entertaining guide accompanies you in a coach from the reception centre to where you then get on to the big wheeled ice bus that drives you out on to the glacier. You can't quite believe how big it is until you get out and walk about on the ice. We refilled our water bottle with the ice cold water from the glacier. An experience not to be missed."
"We went to the sky-walk. Unfortunately the weather was terrible so not very good value for our dollar as there was no way to get out of the storm, except to get back on the bus. We will go again next year on a better day."
"Superb blue-white ice colours, nice trip on a big truck, ice cold natural water stream make the trip to the icefiled a must around Japsers. Highly recommended"
"Its a great spectacular that - due to climate change is shrinking. You have to drive to get there and a few hundred years ago, it came right up to the road but now its receded quite a way. Some of the oldest ice on the planet is here. Wow !"
Amazing place to visit - but so sad to see how far the glacier has retreated. Straightforward walk - but not so easy for anyone with mobility issues.
"Awesome in Summer, and now seen in its desolation and isolation in winter. As noted by others, don't enter the snow country unprepared. Once there, one can experience from a safe distance, the hostile environment."
Thank goodness we decided on a whim for snow tires on the rental and I had read to have a full tank of gas- This was a desolate drive- at night there was scary but leaving in the day was beautiful!
"As far as an educational visit goes it, it shows pretty thoroughly the impact and loss of the natural wildlife and glacier, even the two 16 yr olds were interested. Besides that the location offers immense beauty with of course the huge ice field, but also being surrounded by incredible views of the mountains, the streams of melting glacier (depending on time of year) and is in general an awesome place to spend a few hours and reflect on the earth and nature. Planning on returning on a road trip in 2016"
Well worth the stop along the Ice Field Byway. Great opportunity to have a restricted walk on a glacier. The bus trips to the top of the glacier are something to be experienced. You can hike with a guide. Wildlife is rarely seen but we had mountain goats licking the salt from the rocks on our return trip. Other experiences are available.
"The icefields are a must on a visit to canada, I have been twice onto the galacier by the monster machines that take your right onto the glacier or ice fields.Both times it was different.They allow you to get off the transporter &actually walk on the frozen ice, It was awsome.Wear the right kind of clothing &footwear for the experience-you wont be disappointed"
"I can't believe how this glacier has resceded in the last 30 years. When we first moved to Alberta, it was close to the highway, now it's a 30 minute walk. Still a beautiful walk, and a view, but getting up there in age, better for the grand kids to enjoy"
If you have never really experienced the Rocky Mountains you have never really seen an awe inspiring mountain range. This trip needs to happen once in your life minimum. Weather and lighting are definitely a huge factor in the experience but once you time those right this drive is absolutely stunning. If you take this trip in winter be sure to have four wheel drive and decent ice tires just to ensure your safety. Leave early enough to make the stops you want to take to soak it all in and BTW... BRING A CAMERA!!!!
I loved the ice field! So amazing to see even in summer! The whole region is so picturesque and I can't wait to go back again.
The experience is worth the effort. Book tickets in advance - there are long line -ups. Not much to see
"This was part of our tour, whilst we were stood waiting to board the coach to the base station we saw a small avalanche and the experience of the going in the ""monster mobiles"" that take you up and standing on the glacia was the best"
"If you do nothing else, you must visit the Columbia Ice Field, it is spectacular.My son and I drove up to the fields, the scenery driving there was fantastic.Heart sank a little when we arrived, seeing the anount of coaches parked up along with the 100s of cars, is enough to make you want to keep driving. To be honest we did, but came back later in the afternoon when the carpark was a lot quieter.We went by tour bus to the viewing area. The views were spectacular. Unfortunately, they were spoilt by the several coach parties of Japanese tourists who think they are the only ones who are visiting the area. Who all seemed to want to jump up and down on the glass floored viewing balcony, whilst shouting at the top of their lungs to members of their group, on the far side of the viewing platform, who were too scared to venture onto it! Whilst I appreciate they are excited, consideration for fellow visitors wouldn't have gone amiss.We returned back to base and drove over to the ice field.....the sheer size of it will take your breath away."
I would 100% recommend that you do the glacier walk. The guides are very informative and helpful. It was great to get out and walk on the ice.
"This was a most extraordinary experience. Riding in a giant ice mobile and then walking on the Athabasca Glcier was an experience that I will not forget. The colour of the ice, the blue sky and the incredible knowledge that I was walking on a glacier was incredible. The driver was excellent and relayed interesting information about the Ice Field. A fantastic experience."
"Very fun and different adventure. The drive to the glacier in the big bus was really cool and the tour guide was super funny and very informative. We went in the middle of July but it was still very cold up top (obviously, it's a glacier lol). Definitely dress for the occasion, the ice can be slippery in some spots."
The view is amazing. We'll make sure of coming back in a different time of the year for being able of climbing and visit more places.
"Not many people live near a glacier, so if you are in the Jasper/Banff area and have the time it is a beautiful drive to see the glacier. If you want, you can book a tour on an ice crawler (book ahead!) and get out on the glacier itself. If you don't book a tour you can drive into a free (but usually packed!) lot and walk to the glaciers edge."
"I wouldn't rate it as high as some of the canyons, waterfalls, & unusually colored lakes, but most of us won't see anything like this anywhere else. Definitely worth a visit. Don't let mild or merely cold weather in parking lot fool you. It was way colder and windier once we got up top. Bundle up."
"Brewster has specially equipped buses that can be driven on the Athabasca Glacier. It's a different experience. Glad we did it when we had the chance. All the literature said that one should do that and I agree.But the really great experience was driving the Icefield Parkway. What a beautiful road thru the mountains. Take your time because you will want to stop to admire and take pictures of the terrific scenery. It is not a road to be rushed but it is not dangerous as long as you are a sensible driver. Unfortunately, we did not see any four-footed wildlife but we saw plenty of that in Alaska."
"Stop here to stretch your legs and check out the glacier, it's a nice quick hike in the summer up to the ice and in the winter it's quite a stunning view. There's also the ice-buses if you want the real guided tour."
"We enjoyed our trip the icefields. We had a long wait for a bus as there were a lot of tour groups booked in, but it was worth the wait. we had a couple of interesting tor guide who were very knowledgable and entertaining. The weather was fairly good on the day we went and we had good views for photographs and a walk around on the ice.And we sampled the water. They only down sides were the long wait and the cafe, The food was awful. Pop in to a bakery in Banff, Jasper or Sunwapta for a take away sandwich. Or book a tour in advance so you know what time to arrive there."
The glacier has changed so much over the years. It is lovely to drive on it in the snow coaches. Awesome to walk on the glacier.
The toe of the glacier is definitely melting. You can see the signs where is was in the sixties and where it is today. Global warming. Not good.
"Columbia Ice Field is a good opportunity to stop and stretch and if the weather permits, park close to the glacier and take a few steps on it. The sides have markings showing how much the ice melted in the past years. It is definitely a sight o see!The Columbia Ice Field visitor centre is located approximately half-way between Golden, BC and Jasper, AB, on the connecting highway, right across the glacier, offering food, information and trips on the glacier in special, wide-tires busses."
"Try to see it during the times when the Brewster tours are going up the glacier to get the full experience. You can still see it in the winter but the trek on snow covered paths and up a steep hill where you can't figure out where the trail is, is not fun."
"I've visit this location in July 2015, July 2010, and August 1996. Time wins, I'm afraid. Where once, one could simply walk from their car/transportation and right up onto the ice itself, safety concerns leave visitors with either diminished foot access to the dusty, dirty bottom ice, or one could pay the exorbitant fees for a specialised vehicle."
"If you can preorder your tickets online before you go. BEWARE it can and DOES snow here ANYTIME!!!! I saw people with flip flops on the morning I arrived Aug 21 at 8am to a cold but wet parking lot. Within one hour there were 6 inches of snow (~15cm)They try to make it safe but walking out on the glacier can have it's fun, I fell into a hole up to my knee in ice cold water. A great way to wake up.Few people know but this is one of perhaps 2-3 hydrological apex on the planet. From here water flows to three different oceans."
Our coach tour took in the attraction and it was one of the highlights of the holiday. There is a visitor centre with very good facilities but the glacier itself is just amazing! The final drive onto the glacier was on a purpose-built bus and the driver gives an entertaining commentary. Climbing down onto the ice and walking across the specially prepared are was brilliant. The ful majesty of the place cannot be expressed in words.
"The place is great, but Brewster (the evil monopoly tour operator in Banff) will only allow for a 15 minute visit with the bus.By the way, when you book the ticket, they might tell you that the only way to visit the field is with the Brewster Bus. Not true. You can do it by your own, and there is no legal restriction on doing it (but it's a difficult climb, and somewhat risky if you do it by your own, without a guide)"
"We drove from Banff to Jasper, and observed the ice fields. Beautiful to see with our own eyes, rather than just from pictures. Sadly, we were out of tourist season so couldn't do a tour, but stopped off just to say wow!"
"we had a wonderful day at the Ice fields, interesting bus ride and more amazing touching the glacier ice and seeing how vast an area it is near, would recommend stopping at the ice fields..."
We drove the glacier parkway from Jasper to Banff and saw the icefields and all i can say is worth the trip. I could not get enough of the views.
We had really been looking forward to visiting here because of the other-worldly experience of a 'bus' ride onto a live glacier. Having visited Franz Joseph and Fox Glaciers in New Zealand we were not really prepared for how different this experience was. Our two boys loved it and it is an experience that will be with them for a long time. Great!
Most people doing this are of an older generation and do this a tick box exercise. If you are going to do a glacier walk do it in Patagonia or New Zealand. Doing it here is not going to match those.
"My husband, who had visited Columbia Ice Field years ago, discouraged me to join the tour. But I was swayed because I felt where else can I experience an ice field. I must say he was right. It was just too expensive for what I got."
If you are wondering whether to go on the glacier explorer - do it. This is an absolutely amazing experience and must not be missed.
"The power of the glacier and how far it has receded is just amazing. We took the bus from the discovery center to the Glacier walk. Looking down and seeing the ravine under your feet, with just glass between you and the bottom, was at first slightly terrifying , but such a great experience once you got used to it."
"Awesome is a word used a lot in Canada and on this occasion it is well justified. The scale of the thing is massive, truly stunning. Nothing touristy was running which initially disappointed us with the tours up onto the glacier stopped for the winter but being able to hike (and it is a hike) up to the edge of the glacier is an experience worth the effort."
"big glacier, easy to walk from the parking lots - also for children
wonderful scenery
and not far away from jasper"
"We stopped to do a geocache here, walked up the hill to the glacier. It helps to put a face on the melting glacier problem."
"It is a well organized trip, from the check-in and bus arrangement.The driver is also a tour guide during the trip. They are passionate and active, yet some of them with strong accent, also they speak quite fast, so we missed some of the introduction to the landscape and nature. Baby and kid can go also, my girl enjoyed playing on the Ice field.Pity that the time spending on the ice is only 20 mins."
We drove along the Route 93 in our fab JEEP! Add hours onto your journey to stop and stop and stop again and again. Just magic. Glaciers all over the place. Glacial rivers a plenty. Beautiful scenery. The drive from Jasper to Banf is a must - do. Hire a car so you have the complete freedom to explore and spend as much time as you like taking in the awsome sights.
"The ice fields are a must see when visiting Jasper. We went on the off season, but were still able to walk up to the base of the glacier, cold but amazing."
This is really an experience of a lifetime. It is breaktakingly beautiful. One can stand and watch the glacier for hours and you also have the option of parking yr car and walking up to the glacier yourself. It's amazing
Easily view-able from the main road but you have to go near it to see its grandeur. Its massive and has bus tours which take you on the ice but we had little time to do that.
"This trip seems to be the number one thing to do between Jasper & Banff, it was very busy even towards the end of the season, the drive through the Icefield is simply breathtaking and has to be one of the number one drives in the World for spectacular scenery. The Icefield visit itself is done in 2 parts with the bus taking you from the centre to the transit point where you board another bus to take you onto the Icefield where you have about 15-20 minutes. The drivers inform you about the local history and geology regarding the area."
We had a great guide. Once in a lifetime experience. Just amazing site to see and walk on the glacier we had fantastic weather (no wind) so was quite pleasant walking around. Just don't forget your camera there is more to see than just ice.
"The Icefields never cease to amaze, no matter how many times you look at them.We arrived after season, so the Icefields Centre was closed, but there were not a lot of tourists around either so it was not crowded getting to the foot of the glacier. The outdoor washrooms are open year round and maintained, and therefore clean. I'd watch thisplace in the winter after the snow falls. It could get icy due to winds and cold."
We were excited for this attraction. Lots of information about the area and it's really cool to say that I stood on a glacier. Great views. Definitely worth the time and money.
While in Columbia Ice Fields you should book a tour and go on and walk on a glacier it is a great experience and it is cheaper than what you would pay in Alaska.
"I am an Albertan and visited the Colombian Ice-fields for the first time while my Australian in-laws were visiting. Something we just don't think to do in our own back yard... it was an awesome day and also very educational. I would recommend this tour at least once. Facility at the discovery center is great, very organised. Guides on the buses are funny and entertaining. Only suggestion, go early and bring your own food. There is a cafeteria on site but the food is deep fried nasty crap and expensive... $3.50 for a tea:("
"The ads and brochure promised a 90 minute interpretive guided tour of the glacier and ice field. All that wa delivered was a 10 minute bus ride each way with a few comments from the driver and a 15 minute ride to the glacier on a vehicle called an ice explorer. You do have a chance to walk on the Athabaskan glacier and view the Columbian Ice Field wall above the glacier. The ice field is purported to be the largest ice mass in the Rockies. However, all you can see is the ice wall above where you stand. If you have never walked on a glacier before, it is worth the trip. However, if you have, don't bother."
Was the second time doing the tour but it was just a magical as the first time. The tours guides give you lots of information. The views are amazing. Go early to avoid the crowds!
Amazing to see this and how far over time the glaciers really have receded! Do the glacier adventure and walk right out on them!
i took the brewsters coach from jasper to banff which goes on the ice field parkway highway 93 and stops at the columbia ice field. it was excellent to see. sure it was busy but popular places are. brewsters coaches were very good. the drivers are friendly and helpful. they pick you up and drop you off at your hotel. the coaches are very clean and the drivers tell you about where you are stopping. the trip was good value. better to admire the views from a coach than driving a car when you have to concentrate on the road.
Four of us in our party visited the ice field and walked on the glacier....what an experience! Taken by the big wheeled bus....that itself was brilliant....and then to actually walk on ice as deep as the Eiffel Tower is tall was indescribable! Surrounded by the Rockies with some of the mountains snow covered was an incredible sight! The visit also included a buffet meal and a visit to the ice field skywalk......great trip!
"We drove along the Icefield Parkway from Jasper to Golden and made a stop at the Columbia Icefield. We were early so we were the first on the Columbia Icefield Adventure tour. The experience is truly breathtaking. We walked on glacial ice and the temperature was at -5 degrees Celsius - a very wintry day in September so come prepared. You will need to wear gloves, mufflers, double socks and warm jackets.Driving along the Icefield Parkway is one of the best scenic road trips you can make and going to the Columbia Icefield definitely is 50% of the reason why."
This was the highlight of my trip!!! Definitely highly recommended!If you get the chance it's an opportunity of a lifetime that you won't regret
Was camping close by and wanted to do the tour - the vehicles are pretty cool and its a sight to see before its gone. Go on the glacier tour and feel the mountain air!
"One of the biggest glaciers you can see from a road. Lots of tourists but absolutely worth visiting whether you go walking on it, take the big bus or just go up to the end of the glacier. A real example of how climate change changes the environment."
"A great place to visit; especially if you are from Oklahoma where the glaciers are difficult to locate. We had a great time, never encountered any challenges for a couple in their late 70's. Not very much more to tackle even if we were younger. If you never looked down or level, the scenery of snow on all the mountain peaks insures a worthwhile drive."
"When we stopped at the Columbia Icefield Center on our way to Jasper, the place was very crowded with a lot of buses and tourists, and so we just took a few pictures and were on our way. But we returned the next morning for the Glacier Walk with our group - Athabasca Glacier Icewalks- and this experience (3 hrs) was really worth it"
"What a trip, to be able to walk on an icefield with very little physical effort. A bus takes you to the icefield, you get off and walk around. What an experience on the ice! You get ample time on the ice to take it all in and a commentary on the way to the icefield. And the bus takes you back - easy!"
"I have to rate this attraction high as it allows anyone who can't get to most glaciers to see what the ice and dirt are like up close. Feeling the cold down flow from the ice above makes people realize that even on a sunny day, it can be cold on the glacier.  You can venture on to the glacier via tour bus only, and deciding to walk up to the toe of the glacier is less than 1 km at the moment. Realize that this is a busy, busy place in tourist season, and will help you get through the hordes of people and line ups that you will encounter at the centre."
"2 hours driving from Banff, awesome view at here, cold but manageable. You can purchase ticket for special bus to give you a ride on ice falls. This is much more worth than spend your money on gondola........ Enjoy"
"We never get tired of visiting the Columbia Ice Field. In the 1950's the ice field came nearly to the present day highway. It has receded significantly in the last 60 years. The visitors centre is quite impressive as well. Beware, however, prices for goods and services at this centre are outrageous. If you want to purchase a small can of coca cola, be prepared to spend $3.50."
"Bus loads of tourists, slow lines for tickets, long walk from parking to Center. If you do not buy (very expensive) tickets, you can drive to the bottom of the glacier and walk close to it but not right to it. They don't let you drive higher, where the glacier is. Wear warm clothes and good shoes."
"No longer that spectacular, but still worth a visit, especially when you are there for the first time. Comfy travelling in Brewster's giant buses."
It is the largest ice field in the Rocky Mountains of North America. A must to go for anyone visiting Banff and Jasper. The glacier is accessed by a special kind of bus which has wheels taller than us.Taste the pure water but watch out ice-hole! Ask for CAA membership discounted rate.
"It is definitely the highlight in North Alberta. It is quite far for us Calgarians, however, the long bus ride is certainly worthwhile once you arrived at the site. Special hiking shoes with ice picks are recommended, otherwise, you will find it too slippery to stand on the sheet of ice. Also please bring warm clothing and gloves, the place is quite windy and often rainy."
"A most unusual situation as the glacier is situated in a totally barren area that would resemble what I would think the surface of the moon would look like! The climb from the car park is over pretty rough terrain so wear decent shoes and as you are at quite an altitude, your lungs will feel the haul up the hill to get to the nearest viewing point of the glacier. At that altitude, clouds appear out of nowhere and so you have to try and pick a clear day for the visit. As others have said, it is part of a very large glacier which can only really be seen from the air. It is in the Jasper Park and so individual fee is charged."
Loved going up to the Icefield and learning all about the glacier and the erosion that has taken place.
"Went here in Oct. 2012. First time there since the 1970's. It has changed a lot but is still an awesome experience to get out and walk on the ice field. The venue is run very well, moving lines of people in an organized fashion. Definitely worth the visit."
"This was our second visit to the ice fields. The change in the glaciers in 2 years was very visible. There was fresh snow on the ice fields and pictures were amazing. Our guide, Ness, was fun and informative about the shrinking glaciers. The ride on the huge Ice Explorer was like a slow roller coaster. You can see 3 glaciers here, the center one being the Athabasca Glacier. Get your tickets in advance. There were long lines to purchase walk-up tickets, and we had to come back the next day to be able to take the tour."
"This is a small arm of the largest ice mass in North America, south of the Arctic Circle. And one can walk right up to it without a long hike! Park your car on the opposite side of the highway from the Discovery Center and walk up the hill. Notice the turquoise colors coming from the ice at the lower flank to your right."
The Staff was amazing and the experience was great! Would have been nice to do more on the ice but it was still great!
"We stopped here on our way back from Jasper to Banff. We didn't take the bus that takes you right on the glacier but walked in to the toe of the glacier. It was windy and cold but worth it. Seeing the signs of where the glacier had previously gone out to over the years is very startling. I highly recommend this stop, especially from a learning experience, great for kids but please read the signs and stay on the trails."
This was my first time really seeing a Glacier. I thought it was amazing. We really didn't spend to much time here...just enough to see the Glacier and have a restroom break and back on the road again to Jasper.
Took my 70 year old parents. They thought it was amazing. We have bwen before so were glas to be back!
"Wish the day was clearer, but it was freezing cold and snow blowing sideways. Still great to walk on the glacier and taste the ice cold water."
You drive onto the ice field in a big vehicle which has 5ft high tyres especially designed for this type of thing. Our driver was Kiefer who was both very informative and funny at the same time. You get to spend 30 minutes walking around the ice field at the base of the Athabasca glacier it is breath taking.
"Take your time-don't just 'do it' in one day. Plenty of interesting,spectacular fascinating scenery the whole length of this highway"
Stayed with friends in Calgary and travelled to Quesnell BC via Jasper staying two nights. Jasper is a beautiful place with so much to see and the scenery is absolutely beautiful. I believe travelling in winter will be awesome.
OMG .... This is a must stop on your Canadian Rockies Vacation. Unbelievable sight. to think millions of years ago what was this part of our world like under ice.
"We started our self drive adventure through the Rockies from Jasper. The scenery between here and Lake Louise was spectacular and wonderful views continued all the way to Banff. You really need two or three days to cover all the other attractions like Lake Maligne, Athabasca Falls, Bow Lake, Icefield Glacier, Peyto Lake, Jackson Canyon, Lake Louise etc."
Excellent day out. Took bus from jasper through to Banff. Trip on to glacier was very good as it snowed whilst we were there.
"Make sure you wear some warm clothes for this excursion, I was not prepared for how cold it was going to be! But well worth a visit it is amazing."
What a fantastic structure to get you right out there. The interpretive information was very well done and the supplied audio equipment topped it off. Highly recommended.
"We spent a couple of days in the area of the Columbia Ice Field. On our first day, we at lunch at the visitor center in the cafeteria and then walked over to the base of Athabasca Glacier. We later camped nearby, and then stopped by again the next day for another look in the morning sun. Very beautiful!!!"
"We enjoyed our trip to the glacier. Keiffer, our driver to the glacier, had a great personality and was a lot of fun. It is sad that the glaciers are slowly receding so see it while you can. They do have quite a monopoly with the restaurant on site. The food is OK but pricey. There isn't anything around for miles so if you are there at lunch you don't have much of a choice."
"Coach drivers were FANTASTIC ! base are where tickets are taken care of was very unorganized . Restrooms were filthy and unsanitary. food was overpriced even for a tourist trap and didn't look appealing , but the hot dog I settled on was OK, I would suggest bringing your own food.This would be a 5 if only Brewster could get it's act together and care about the service instead of the massive $$$ they are raking in."
"You really need an entire day to do this trip, but it's well worth it. We bought an audio tour guide for our tablet for $4.95 and it was a fabulous way to learn about the ice fields and the various stops. If a hike was too strenuous, we often did not stop since the high altitude was difficult for us. Our favorite stop was Mt. Edith Cavell because we had it all to ourselves for about 20 minutes. The road up to it contains numerous hairpin turns and we almost turned around since the signage is poor, but we continued on and were very glad we did. We did not care as much for the major tourist stops such as the glacier ice walk simply because the sites were very crowded. Oh...and bring a picnic. The food at all of the stops was mediocre at best, and expensive."
"Visiting the Columbia Icefield can be whatever you want it to be. For us, we went into the center and were repelled by the THRONGS of people, so we decided to just drive up the the glacier field and take come pics, walk around a bit--just did some sightseeing on our own. You can get on a guided tour and see more and do more, but it was not worth dealing with the crowds for us. We actually visited the fields twice...the 2nd time was at sunset and NOONE was there. It was fun to be at the base of these mighty glaciers as night fell and you could almost hear them creaking down the mountains. I would like to do an official tour one day, but I would have to arrive very early to have any chance of missing the giant crowds."
Had a nice ride by the giant truck with giant wheels up to the ice field. Be careful while walking as it can get pretty slippery. Make sure you are dressed comfortably and warmly as it gets really cold when the wind blows. A beautiful experience indeed.
"wonderful, this road is the top experience of the Rockies. You are in the middle of mountains, glaciers, rivers and waterfalls. make as much stops that you can"
We were there half an hour before the closing hours at five P. M. and we were not allowed to take the excursion as they said was not worth to put another bus. Deplorable! Bad attention of the front desk as well as the supervisor.
Great to walk on a glacier - wrap up it was cold! You get a set time for your walk but you may be able to get on an earlier bus - just turn up and try.
"The glacier is huge. There is a bit of a hike up to the foot of the glacier. If you are not taking the tours and don't need a bathroom break, park directly in the lot at the foot of the glacier. The Icefield Center is not very interesting at all. Although you can take a picture of the entire glacier on its balcony."
"If you are there and never seen it before, you must do this once of a life time experience. The scene is unreal from the bus tour that you can't see from below. And the glacier water from the ice - sweet! Free Wifi from the tourist center, the restaurant is ok."
"whilst not the most exciting place in the world, too mean to pay to actually go on what's left of the glacier. But park and walk up to the edge and note with despair how far the glacier has receded over the years, they have marker posts. A sobering experience."
"awesome , tourism gone mad since our last gist 5 yrs ago would suggest getting there early to dodge long waiting periods to purchase tickets"
"We enjoyed the glacier bus trip it was a good opportunity to really feel the size of the glacier and to learn more about it.For me the glacier skywalk was a conquered challenge as I dont like heights but I did it and enjoyed it.We got to the centre quite early and had no lining up but by the time we left there were lots of tour busses with pushy tourists ! Our visit was right at the end of the season but I can imagine how busy it would be during peak season ,I would suggest to get there EARLY and try and beat all the coach loads."
"This is a spectacular glacier, which is moving surprisingly fast at about 5mm a day!! The bus takes you directly onto the large flat area near the front. Very cold as you might imagine, and the ice is actually blue. This is due to the aeons old compression of the snow to the point where the air has been expelled, and the light is refracted through pure ice."
"This is the largest body of ice in the Rockies, and probably the most commercialized glacier tour. For me, that is a good thing. It’s within view of Icefields Parkway, at Icefield Centre, where out 39-member tour group boarded a bus for a ride to the staging area. There we took a tank-like bus, descended an incredibly steep slope to the edge of the ice field. The trek is designed for the tire-treads to pass through a stream of glacial melt, to wash away debris and prevent dirt from accumulating on the glacier, which would accelerate melting. The informative and humorous glacier-guide provided details about the vastness and movement of the glacier. It’s necessary to obtain tickets at Icefield Centre—at which I understand there was a consider wait in early September—but the tour company had prearranged tickets for the group and our tour guide had phoned ahead with the estimated time of arrival. We waited less than ten minutes to be on our way to the river of ice, something this Floridian is not likely to see anytime soon. To experience this incredible learning adventure, I recommend prearranging for tickets, if possible."
"The Icefield itself is pretty amazing, the process one must go through to GET to it is time consuming, expensive and you only really get about 15 minutes on the actual ice. The guides are very informative and knowledgeable which is nice but if you really want to spend some time here, consider hiking up there instead of taking the tour."
A real must do experience. Ride the snow bus right on to the glacier to see how vast it really is.the drivers are all characters with stories to tell. A very good gift shop restaurant and lodge across the road from the ice field.
"I saw the bus rides, but they looked terrible. However, I saw some people hiking on the glacier. I wish I had known about this in advance, but you should look at icewalks.com for an additional way to see the glacier. I wasn't able to make a reservation myself, but I heard a lot of good things about it.Just a suggestion for another way to explore this awesome sight."
"the day we tried to go it was a 20 minutes queue for tickets followed by over an hour wait to go onto glacier. didn't bother as drove to bottom car park and enjoyed view. Angel glacier better, this just commercial as can go onto glacier via bus."
Amazing trip! We were the second snocoach of the day (9.30 trip) & so there was only 30 people on the glacier as opposed to 200!!!Well worth booking an early trip even though it means leaving jasper early. The early bird as they say certainly does catch the worm!!!!
"Never expected to learn so much about how important the Ice Field is for all of us in the futire. Fun ride on the ""Monster Bus and so much fun on the ice. Everyone needs to do this adventure !"
FAscinating journey on unique vehicles to a once in a lifetime experience. Our driver on the trip up the glacier Keifer was informative and witty. Shows the real effects of global warming.
I travel with bus tour and booked all my rides with the tour operator.This was my second visit after almost 15 years. It is still very spectacular landscape. Although the Glacer is much smaller than I first visited it is still one of the Most Awesom place.Take time to digest this place and enjoy the beauty with lots of time.
"Kids were restless so we decided not to do the bus tour onto the ice fields and instead just parked the car and walked up. You won't get anywhere near the ice fields this way, so maybe we should have taken to tour by bus. I remember going here as a kid... Boy the ice has sure melted since then."
The visitor center is a busy place but from here you can get a buy tickets to either a hike near the glacier or a bus that puts you right on the foot of the glacier.
"One of the interesting or maybe more aptly put concerning details about the Glacier is its rate of retreat. Our first visit to the Ice Fields was in 1990, then in 2003 and now Sept 2015. It's quite alarming to see the difference. The markers than indicate where the edge of the glacier was on the specified years gives you a sense of how the retreat of the Glacier has accelerated over the decades i.e. Global Warming. From the parking area to the edge of the glacier is now quite a hike compared to how close you could get in 1990. in 2003 we did the Brewster tour that took you out onto the ice with those huge ballooned tired buses, the road along the glacier has changed a lot since then. The mounds of gravel and rock that has been left from the Glaciers retreat presents a bit of a hike to get over the hill to close in on the actual glacier. I wonder how far back the edge will be in another 25 years?"
We travelled one hour from Jasper to take the bus onto the glacier. There are 2 tickets areas to get tickets for the glacier bus - go to the one at the back furthest from the parking lot for quicker service. We were disappointed in that we would have to wait 3 hours to catch the next available bus to the glacier - booked with bus tour reservations. Some buses has also broken down. We were left with driving to the foot of the glacier and walking to its base which was free.
One of the best experiences ever. The trip onto the glacier was amazing. The guide was informative but the real star was the landscape. Awesome as they say in this part of the world.
"What a beautiful drive. It must be one of the most spectacular drives in the world. But if you go on an overcast, low clouds day you will miss so much. Try to drive it when the sun is shining, or at least the clouds are high in the sky. Stop often to look at waterfalls and take a walk/hike."
We left from Jasper with fairly decent temperatures of around 14-16 centigrade but by the time we reached the Icefields we had gorgeous thick snowfall transforming the entire landscape into a winter wonderland scene..and preparing us for what was in store .....the stunning Glaciers and The Columbia Icefields !! The weather was lovely in a way slightly sunny with occasional snow fall .We had to wait for appx an hour before our turn came to go to the icefields but time soon went admiring the surroundings.. by that time we had a coffee + a bite to eat & warm up.The special shuttle buses that take you to the icefields are amazing with 6' high wheels that get you through the drive with ease. The lovely blue colour of the frozen ice and the feeling of just being there cannot be explained. If you get a chance to go it is breathtaking....The only thing a lot of us didnt like was the shuttle bus drivers blatantly asking for tips ..... they were with us for no more then 15-20 mins. ..and the thought of tips at every step can be quite daunting ...esp. if demanded !!!!
"Well organised place with a dramatic glacier. It was snowing when we went which added to atmosphere. Can get very busy,restaurant/cafe expensive. Probably one of the busiest attractions in the rockies but worthy of a visit. Guides gave interesting information with good humour."
"This is a must see for everyone, to experience Mother Nature at its best. Get there early so as to avoid the noise & bustle of lots of people & to get yourselves a warm drink to keep warm. The experience is well organised & informative with the ability to walk on & drink from the Glacier. Please include the Skywalk in your experience as it is truly amazing to be able to walk out into the canyon with spectacular views & lots of information with walking headsets & boards along the way. If you are lucky you will see some Mountain Goats like us across the road feeding!"
"We did not take the bus that goes out on to the Glacier. It took too long for our purposes. We drove to the parking lot and hiked to the foot of the Glacier. It is really an amazing experience.There are markers every so often along the driving route that indicate where the toe of the glacier in decades before. You can see how far the glacier has receded due to melting.There are also many warning signs not to go on the Glacier because of the many unseen crevasses and underground lakes with freezing water. If you have young children, keep watch over them. Don't let them near the glacier."
"It really blows you mind to think you ae standing on hundreds of feet of compacted ice. The trip out onto the glaciers is well worthwhile - the guides give lots of information about the creation and movement of the ice field. Wrap up though, it was snowing mid September!!"
"This is one of the 'must do' activities for most tour operators, but it was not actually exciting. The drive onto the glacier in the big wheeled bus was the most interesting bit. On the glacier you do not get amazing views and have no sense of the scale of the area. There are a lot of people in small space. Would not bother again"
This was on eof the highlights of our Rockies trip and should be mandatory for visitors. We arrived on what appeared to be a busy day but neverthelee only had a 1.5 hour delay to travel up to the glacier. The glacier bus trip itself is an experience on its own particularly the 18% incline it had to take enroute. Glacier itself is spectacular and particularly so when you see the hanging glaciers in the upper valleys.Particularly cold on the glacier so wrap up well.Guide/driver very helpful and informative. We were on the glacier for 1 minutes and was more than enough.
Stopping at the Columbia Ice Field is very educational and interesting to learn about geology related to glaciers. Visitors are able to take large transports on to the glacier. The drivers provided information regarding the glacier along the way.
"Our yonge kids were absolutely gob smacked by this attraction. They loved the bus ride to the glacier. When they saw the truck that took us to the glacier they were speachless. Our commentator/driver on the truck was very informative, funny and kept us engaged during the drive down to the glacier. The glacier it's self is always wonderful to see up close. The kids loved to touch the snow in the summer. We loved to see the view. This was a very entertaining attraction for all ages. Beware, it is wet on the ground so pack extra shoes & socks in case you step in a puddle. Bring warm clothes because it is cold up there in the summer months."
You have to experience Columbia Ice field atleast once in your lifetime! It was raining heavy so it kinda damped our mood but it was still worth it. Its about 55$ plus tax per person. I suggest to go during June/ July months to get really nice pictures. This is a major tourist destination so saw tourists from all around the world. Kieffer was our bus driver and he was good guide. Wish it hadn't rained when we went. Learnt our lesson.. next time definitely we are going during June/ July months.
"We arrived at the Columbia Ice Field centre at 13:00 and had to wait until 14:15 before our visit to the Ice Field but we filled the time with lunch in the restaurant which was good value for money. When we had arrived the weather took a turn for the worse and you couldn't even see the Ice Field and we thought we had made a bad decision to book our tickets. However, the guide on the trip did say that the weather does change instantly, lasts for a short time and then turns bright again. He was right. By the time we reached the Ice Field on the Olympic decorated vehicle it was glorious sunshine. The light was so bright it hurt your eyes to view without sunglasses. The ice was blue in places and truly amazing to see. You are given approximately 20 minutes in a safe area which is marked on the ice. This is sufficient time to take in the view of the Athabasca Glacier and the Ice Field. The whole trip to the Ice Field is approximately and 1.5 hours so allow plenty of time for the visit plus lunch!"
This is a not to be missed highway from Jasper to Banff. There are fantastic views all around you - its a good job I was on a coach and not driving as my eyes would not have been on the road!
"Standing on a glacier in freezing cold conditions plus rain? This was an absolutely amazing experience.The ice explorer vehicle had limited vision on the journey to the glacier and relied on someone opening a window for you to see anything unless you were in the front seats. But once it reached the glacier it was incredible to step out onto the ice. Make sure you're rugged up including scarf, gloves and beanie or youwon't be able to spend long on the ice."
"This was a stunning tour for us. The ride out to the glacier in one of the big snow-bus vehicles, the decent onto the ice, and the chance to walk and play on a glacier. Awesome views of the other glaciers above you and a chance to get up close to pure, blue ice. For most this is a once in a lifetime experience. And its right of Hwy 93 and easily accessed."
However it is a bit today it is a great experience top stand on top of the glacier ice. The facts about the glacier ice were interesting and the colour vote of the ice was incredible. Bit hurry up as it seems to melt 7 meter per annum :-))Your guides are enthusiastic and it a great stop between Banff and Jasper
"Makes your feel quite small in this world, what a wonder this was and definitely worth a visit, dress up warm as it was really windy the day I visited but was still fantastic"
"Our group decided way in advance that we wanted to do the bus to the glacier. I booked tickets on the web weeks in advance for a specific time. That did mean that we needed to plan our travels carefully and not be late. The visitors center was quite crowded and I was glad we had prepared and had a scheduled time.There is food available, but with long lines. There are also some nice displays on the lower level of the center. We were all very disappointed in the film - expecting some real information rather than just an artsy music video.The trip up to the glacier itself is also rather devoid of much real info and you get to spend about 15 minutes walking on the ice. I suppose this is one of those ""you only do it once in your life"" opportunities. But it is not cheap and I had hoped for something a bit more interesting. You can park at the lower lot and walk part way up for free at your own schedule which might be a better option."
A must do stop on your trip up the parkway. Really interesting visitor centre (do not miss the film and museum in the basement).
"The entire drive from Banff to Jasper offer breathtaking views of glaciers, crystal lakes and beautiful landscapes. Take time to stop and take pictures of the Columbia ice field. The tour is expensive and you can park and walk right up to it for free. Walking on the ice is over-rated. This stop is a must if you travel in the Canadian Rockies."
We visted in September with good weather. Not that busy. I imagine the crowds could be over whelming when it gets busy. Did a trip onto the glacier which must be done on a tour bus. Having walked on Glaciers in other parts of the world this one not that spectacular. Having said that for children and anyone who had not seen a glacier it would be great. If you do not want to pay to travel on the ice you can drive down to the edge of the glacier to look. Was disappointed with the general area around the main buildings litter seems to be a problem.
Accessed by some enormous specialised vehicles. Bitterly cold wind. Interesting but disturbing insight into glacial history and effect of global warming
You can just drive to the glacier and walk to the tip of it - or drive up the hit - there's a road left of the glacier
"It is quite expensive to take the tour to the ice field, but you can park across the road and take a walk close to the ice. I have at another time been on the tour and on the ice, which is fun for kids, but not that great! There are quite a few Glaciers to see along the way in Jasper and Banff, so nothing special here."
We drove to the car park and then walked to view the glacier you can no longer walk on the glacier unless you are on an organised tour bus (apparently due to safety reasons) but the sceptic in me reckons the tour company have got the whole thing bottomed off. It is still an amazing sight to see and environmentally should they be driving tour buses onto a fast dispearing glacier anyway?
Great to get up close to what can be seen all around you on higher peaks. Very funny commentary from the drivers.
Amazing ice field accessible only by the specialized access vehicles. This is educational but dress warmly.
"The most impressive thing was the walk up to the glacier past the small signs which show where the glacier used to be. The retraction even within my life time is astounding. I didnt think the commercial operations of the skywalk and the bus trip out to the glacier were worth doing, but the short walk to the toe of the glacier certainly was. If there was a helicopter ride up to the icefield proper I would certainly have done that, just to get a sense of the scale of the thing. I didnt like the fact that the commercial operators and the parks service were in the same building, many tourists seemed to be confused about the different roles of the two. The AV presentation of the parks service was pathetic, it didnt give me any information about the glacier formation and status but was a feel good piece about kids growing up, i just didnt get it."
"A beautiful area and you should take the time to visit. You can hike up to the glacier or ride a bus out on it. Very expensive and you have to wonder as it is shrinking at an alarming rate, how damaging is it to be driving multiple times a day across it."
"The whole drive from Jasper to Banff is amazing, and the glacier walk is well worth the stop. There is no need to go on a trip... just drive down to the car park at the foot of the glacier and walk up the hill infront."
"Prebooked, we had to start the tour on the only rainy day in our holiday. We were asked if we want to cancel and get the money back, but the whole group (14 pers) did the icewalk Deluxe with Athabasca Glacierwalk like teoppers. Good guide, very nice to get extra rainpants and goats and shoes (our own good shoes could stay dry). Trip ended after approx 3 hours, only after an ok from the whole group, because of the bad weather. But: the glacier is nice to walk on, and see the icecaves. The whole center is very touristic and after the walk, the washrooms turned uit to be very...jakkie!"
"Over priced. you can learn more on Wikipedia about Glaciers. The tours are plentiful, but crowded and rushed. Spend your money elsewhere."
This place is worth a visit. Icefield and sky walk worth getting in a package. Book in advance because it gets really busy in peak season. Takes around an hour to do the glacier experience and that is a laugh on its own. Or tour guide Kyle knew a lot about the glaciers and kept us laughing throughout the experience. If you don't like steep hills and bumpy rides it may not be for you but it is good fun. It does get a little nippy up there but nothing a coat won't deal with. Sky walk Takes about another hour with information along the way to keep you entertained and informed. It is high so if you don't like heights or glass floors you can miss the Sky walk all together. Food on-site is ok and not too expensive. Hot dog stand cashier had an attitude colder than the glacier so that was a let down. Busses take you to both parts so all you have to do is park your car and that's it. Good day out. Parking fee free
"I was in two minds as to the ethicacy of the trip on to the glacier. After all, a procession of huge vehicles moving on to the ice many times a day can hardly help the glacier, which we know is in a parlous start, as are most others. The trip itself was an unusual and amazing experience - and when are most of us going to get this opportunity? Some Canadians I talked to said it must be O.K. or the authorities wouldn't allow it. I'm not sure, but if it helps more of us to be aware of climate change, and the need to do what we can, than I guess I can live with my conscience."
"We did a tour from Jasper to Banff which included a tour of the Columbia Icefields it was a fabulous day great weather until it was our turn to take the unimog {all terrain vehicle} we had to wait three hours for the bus just so many tourists here its unbelievable, the glacier can be seen from the visitor center and we watched the bad weather set in, it rained the wind picked up and I really wasn't dressed for freezing temperatures. So if you go up to the glacier take a big warm jacket and preferably waterproofs even if the sun is out because the weather can change here quickly. while you wait for the all terrain vehicle there is a restaurant and good souvenir shop to pass the time we also did the skywalk here great views from the glass deck."
"We were bused up on to the glazier in the bus we were told lots of interesting facts. We then got to stand and walk around. For us this was amazing coming from Australia we don't have this experience,so we loved it .we sent photos back home and everyone loved them."
"My wife and I had made an online booking and we arrived well before our scheduled time. We were able to change our time without any problems and was able to take the tour right away. We boarded one bus that took us to an area where we boarded the special six wheel drive bus to take us on the glacier. There are only 22 of these buses in the world and 21 of these buses are there and the remaining bus is in Antarctica. We were able to spend a considerable time on the glacier and enjoyed the experience very much! We were later on an Alaskan cruise where we toured several glaciers but you could not go on them unless went on a helicopter which costs a lot more than this tour did!!!! If you want to go on a glacier, do it here!!!!! The cost is worth it!!!!"
Most spectacular highway to ride in Canada. many rest stops along the way for great photo captures!!
"This is a compulsory stop-over in Canadian Rockies. Obviously you can see just a little part of the glacier, but is unmissible anyway. The 10 minutes walking is really fascinating. I can suggest to have a windbreaker."
"This is always a ""must stop"" on our drive along the Icefields Parkway. Where has the ice gone? I can't believe how much it has melted in the past 5 years. It's beautiful and you should really go see it before it's gone. :("
"Beautiful vistas, our group was very surprised that buses are operating on the Glacier, so unnecessary, we visited the Skywalk which was very impressive."
"An absolutely fascinating tour of one of the wonders of Canada. This ice field is vast and you only see a small part of it, but the ride up the glacier in specially built coaches is not be missed."
Ice field tour was ok. For $80 you get to do the ice field walk and the the sky walk down the highway. You are on the glacier for about 15 minutes and thats all you really need. The ride in the snow cat was neat. Sky walk was interesting and beautiful just not sure it was really worth the coin tho.
This stop is a high point of the journey along the Icefields Parkway. This large glacier sits just off the road and a short hike takes you to its mouth. Parks Canada has sign-posted the reach of this retreating glacier over the past century and clearly demonstrates the effects of the warming climate we are facing.
"Nice for a brief stop and photos, but very touristy. Both cafes were overpriced, unhealthy food. Crowded with busloads of people who had no choices."
"A once in a lifetime experience. I thought this would be hokey, and to some extent it was. That being said I was glad we did it. When will be the next time you can ride out on a glacier? Our guide was informative and friendly. Only downside was it was ridiculously packed."
"It is a long drive from Banff to the icefields just inside the border to Jasper. I recommend taking some food to eat on the way. There is food available at the icefields center and at the boundary (the Crossing) to the park. If you take the trip onto the icefields, make sure you have some warm clothing to wear. Once on the icefield, it can get windy and chilly. But the experience is great and the only way to see the icefields up close."
"Not the best day visually to visit the icefields, but certainly a ""glacier-like experience"" as the temperature was in the low 40sF, the wind was 20+ mph, and it was sleeting/snowing for most of our time at the glacier. We were well-bundled in layers and certainly enjoyed the fun and bumpy ride from the Visitors' Center to the glacier, as well as the humor and information from our driver. Book ahead if possible, as it is a ""madhouse"" of people!"
"Great trip out onto the glacier in the very capable hands of Patrick Brown, so knowledgeable and informative - felt completely safe driving up to the glacier in the ice-mobile, even when Patrick took his hands off the wheel lol. Was great to see the turquoise ice in the glacier but worrying that this glacier is slowly melting."
This is a must-do stop as you drive up Highway 93. Whether you take the 'bus' or guided hike you'll be in for a treat.
"Wonderful experience, walking on a glacier in brilliant sunshine. Again the views surrounding this attraction are stunning. The special bus was an experience in itself. We did it on a bright sunny day, and required no special clothing or foots are. If visiting in other weather conditions, take advise before setting out"
Taking busses on a glacier is one hell of a stupid idea. We're always talking about how the climate change destroys the glacier and then they take stupid busses on it so people could take photos? Just don't do it. It's so expensive and really not worth it. Stop the busses!
I found this experience a bit touristy but was part of the Rocky Mountaineer Tour package that I was on. By all means it is a great experience to walk on a glacier and for some this is the only opportunity that you may have. I have hiked to and then walked on glaciers in Alaska and if you can do this in Canada do that instead of this .An Ice Explorer ride is included as the only way to reach the glacier.Athabasca Glacier is purely for the tourist and not much time is given to really appreciate where one is and everyone is congregated in a small area . Be prepared for long queues at the eateries and transport to the glacier. Take a warm coat and good quality waterproof walking shoes if not hikers to walk on the glacier. Sunglasses for the glare from the ice and a beany for the head gloves optional. I do believe that there are glacier walks and hikes on offer independently of this tour and I think they would be worth looking at.
"Wow it's not every day you can get the opportunity of walking on a glacier! Truly a wonderful experience . Beautiful views looking up towards the mountain, we even got snowed on in September! Loved it!!:->)"
This is an interesting place and if you go on the ice explorer you can get up on the glacier. We felt that Brewsters seem to have the monopoly every where in the Rockies and that you have no choice but to use their services. It is well run but a little expensive for what it is. You get about 15mins on the actual glacier which is disappearing very quickly over the last few years. You can park across the road and walk up to the bottom of it but if you want to actually walk on the glacial ice then you have to use the tour.
What an incredible experience to be walking on a glacier. We were part of a tour so our transport onto the Athabasca Glacier was pre booked which was good as there were hundreds of tourists at the Icefield Chalet and a lot of them were lined up waiting to get tickets. To get on to the glacier you have to get a bus from the chalet across the road and down the mountain road to a shelter where you wait for an 'ice explorer' vehicle to take you onto the glacier. These vehicles are huge with massive tyres. We had friendly informative drivers on each of the transport legs. You need to wear a warm jacket and shoes suitable for walking on wet ice. It is a real treat to be on the glacier. You have time to walk around and enjoy the experience before doing the return trip . We were advised to take a bottle to collect glacial water from the little melted rivulets which we did. The water is wonderfully fresh and tastes great. The ice is an incredible aqua colour in places and looks really amazing. So glad we had the opportunity to experience this as part of our Canadian holiday.
This place is something else. Very cold but a definite visit wont disappoint. We had so much fun here and the bus driver ( Rick ) was so much fun and very helpful.
"It was an awesome sight to see these wonderful glacciers, albeit that they have receded more than we could ever have imagined."
The road is so close to the glacier here that all you have to do it pull over. The center is crammed with tour bus travelers and they even take tour buses up on the glacier - made me sad to see. It is free to enter so you can take advantage of the flushing toilets because most Park stops only have latrine style bathrooms.
"You can stand, walk, and touch the glacier and see where three glaciers once combined. The blue color is amazing and the views from the glacier are impressive. The ride to the glacier is in a special bus and our driver provided some great information about the area.If you want to walk on the glacier, you must take the tour - you can park your car next to the lake but it is forbidden to walk out to the glacier from that area."
"What an amazing experience to be able to walk on a Glacier!! Extremely cold, dress warm. Take an empty bottle and fill with Glacier water. The taste is amazing!! You will never taste water like it. Very well organised."
You need to walk on this ice field. The expedition staff are very knowlegable and you will learn with them
"This is utterly different. Huge great snow vehicles, drinking glacial water. Sadness at the retreat of the glacier. Well worth the hour wait for the next bus because it was so busy"
"Absolutely stunning views. We did not take the paid tours, but instead marveled at nature's beauty, and did the hike up to near the glacier. I found the signs showing how the glacier has retreated very interesting. The trail was not stroller friendly but was doable for my 3 year old (being carried on shoulders or piggy back a good portion of the way). It is cold so bring a jacket and/or hat!"
"we pre-booked on line before going to Canada and i'm glad we did by 11am it was very busy, we went at 10.15am. The ice trucks are like school buses on giant tyres, the short trip is interesting and the driver very informative. Once on the glacier you are able to walk around take decent footwear as it is very wet as it is scraped before hand so goes slushy. There is a blue hue to the icefield, the ice was very dirty covered in black dust apparently from the Washington fires. Worth a visit if you have never seen a glacier (we've seen the glaciers in Iceland in March and they area stunning)"
The tour by special bus was interesting even though it was very cold. Wear ski jackets and good grip shoes as the ice is very slippery.
"Well worth the trip, the drivers and staff on the explorer vehicles were very knowledgable, interesting and great humour, don't miss this!"
"I try to motorcycle this road at least once a year. The drive is spectacular and the ice fields themselves are without match. I've been on this road when it's cold, sunny, cloudy and snowy. Each time the views are different and stunning."
"Although I found this to be quite expensive- this was a highlight of the trip. was great to learn about the glaciers from the guides. The buses were quite neat as well. I believe that this should be a protected glacier, the tours should be stopped- at the rate of them melting with thousands of warms bodies and buses on it each day it will deteriorate even faster then they say (40 years) The downside to this trip was that the tour bus driver asked for tips at the end of the trip. Tacky! considering how pricey this already was."
"Didn't know what to expect, other than being cold (on Ice), the Trip we took was called The Columbia Icefield Glacier Adventure organised by Brewster Travel from the Icefield Centre. It was well worth the money and very informative. You need to book to make sure that you get to go, as this is a busy tourist location and you don't want to be disappointed."
"Do it - whatever the cost, or weather. We saw the icefield up close and personal in Sept 14, when it was snowing, and more recently in sunny weather from the main visitor centre, incorporating booking office, restaurant, gift shop building (it has everything and a good gift shop). Won't be here in 50 years...great views and the surrounding areas viewed from the road are spectacular."
"We took the tour up to the glacier itself. I have been here many times before and never done that. I was happily surprised to find that I am glad I finally spent the extra cash. We booked our tour time ahead and got here before the tours actually started. That meant we were the first and only ""bus"" to be on the glacier. Our guide had a great sense of dry humor and was very friendly. It's sad to see how fast this amazing natural wonder is melting away."
"Great trip out, it would be nice to have a bit longer on the ice, but all in all very interesting, informative and enjoyable"
"Yeah, my expectations were over the top. I was picturing a solo vehicle wandering over the glacier and instead s parade to an icy parking lot. Nevertheless it's amazing and a mountain top experience. Just jaw dropping. Would like to try a guided hike."
This was my third visit to this Spectacular venue. Being the third visit I was still shocked my the shrinkage of the glacier.as I was showing my sister the mountains of British Columbia and Alberta this was a must see. She was in awe of the size of the tires on the bus getting onto the glacier but then again if you are not then you must have seen a them before. This year I did notice that there was no encouraging of taking a drink of the run off water. The guides were well schooled in the history of the glacier and the other close by features. Definitely a must see if in the area.
"We visited many fabulous sites on our Orbridge Tour of the Canadian Rockies (note: if you are looking to tour that area, look for Orbridge or Globus with Lynda Brown as your guide), but the Columbia Ice Field stands out as a ""must"" visit. It helps to go with a tour group, as we had a reserved visit time and therefore little waiting for a popular destination. Brewster Travel does an excellent job of coordination buses that run to the Snowcoaches which then transport you to the ice field. It is an incredible sight and heartbreaking to see the glacier's rapid decline. Go before the glaciers disappear even more and you will not be disappointed."
"I've been to the ice fields a few times, and must say that they are definitely ""receding"" a bit, which is very sad to see. They are still incredibly impressive to see. You can take a special ride out onto them, which is best for excellent views. There also is a new icefield viewing area that provides spectacular views of the fields from afar. This is about an hour from Jasper, so if you're staying in Jasper, or even in Banff, it's worth the trip to the ice fields. The on-site restaurant can get very busy, especially if there is a tour bus or buses there, so I recommend packing a lunch or snacks."
Its a different experience with the driver's funny ways to interact with the visitors. the explorer is awesome.
"We stayed at the Glacier View Inn for two nights so that we had a full day to explore the area. We did the Glacier Adventure trip on the specially designed vehicle and the Skywalk as well. We learnt so much about the power of glacial water and the flora in the area. We were there late August and saw the change of season - one day there were red late summer plants on the slopes, then overnight there was a fall of snow - magic. The relatively new Skywalk was amazing. We loved the design and engineering feat that it is as well as the sensation of the walk and the discovery learning journey you take - sensational! We had a rental car so were able to make little jaunts on our own as well, from the home base of the Adventure Centre and Inn..Nigel Falls etc…will never forget the brilliantly coloured rainbow as we drove that highway…our photos just couldn't do it justice.."
"It was very crowded... The boarding pass system, to me, is very time consuming. People with ticket holder purchased in other place (Banff) will have to queue again to get the boarding pass. The snow bus will stop for 25 minutes only at the glacier. Very pricey. Not quite worth it. The view is amazing. Once enough and will never go back."
"As you travel through the Canadian Rockies, don't miss the drive up the Icefields Parkways through the Columbia Icefield -- the largest ice field in the Rocky Mountains of North America. The spectacular area is located along the Continental Divide in two provinces (British Columbia and Alberta) and two parks (Banff and Jasper National Parks). The tall mountains and glaciers provide majestic scenery."
"We stopped here as part of an organised tour. It snowed as we got off our coach which was amazing to those who hadn't seen it before. The centre itself is huge, more toilets in one place than I've ever seen lol! The trip onto the glacier on the special ice bus was amazing, all of our group loved it!"
what a trip from banff to jasper a fantastic experience. the glacier is well worth visiting parking is easy and the walk is not far
"Visitor Center was jammed pack on this mid-August Thursday, but ti is a once in a lifetime experience and worth the wait. Try to arrive early to avoid the crowds. Be sure to have warm jacket. Even though it was around 80 degrees at the base, it was 50 and windy on the glacier. Also, make sure to ask for AAA discount if you are a member."
"Wow, but don't spent money on busses. You can walk the 1 hr trail by yourself and save money. Don't do the sky walk either, a waste of money imho"
We spent a full afternoon at the Columbia Ice Fields doing several sightseeing tours. Highly recommend it if you are in the area.
While enjoying a beautiful drive through the Canadian Rockies you can stop off and drive on ice thousands of years old. From the Visitor's Center you learn about glaciers and their quirks. You have the option to board a large ice ready vehicle and travel to a glacier where you are allowed to hike around and expand your experience.
Very good tour guide on the bus to the ice fields and then with the guide on the ice. Very interesting and enjoyable to walk on such a massive section of a glacier. It is cold so be prepared to wrap up. Feet will get wet without good footwear.
We took the day long coach trip from Banff. Coach driver very knowledgeable and friendly. Trip well organised with plenty of stop off points. Dinner( included ) was a hot buffet and very good. Once at the ice fields all I can say is wow!!!! We changed buses to an ice bus and drove on to the glacier and again it was very well informed. Great day.well done
"Certainly something you don't see every day , so unusual you need to stop, take the ice explorer up to be able to walk on the glacier... Beware it can be cold, it fell to -6 and was snowing when we went in early September, waterproof shoes, boots too, as it was slushy, but it is an amazing sight when you get there"
"I have been to the Columbia Icefield three times during the last 4 years and in three different seasons. It has been accessible in April and October – for sure in July as well. And it has been worth seeing it in all seasons.I am not sure when they start their season for taking the bus up to the glacier, because I never did it. I did not see any reason to do so, because I think you can already get much of the impression of the glacier from the areas, which are easily accessible by parking the car on the parking spot north of the Icefields Parkway and walk a few hundred meters. I am also not willing to support what I by now just call the Brewster Mafia, which run most of the tourism businesses in the park – the tours up the glacier as well. In my opinion it is absolutely ridiculous how many Brewster buses you see in the park and they do have the most impact on noise pollution due to keeping the engine running in idle to keep the inside of the bus nice and comfy for the tourists who try to see 28 highlights of the park in half a day. The only good thing I could possibly say about this, is, that these groups “pollute” the hotspots just for a short time and just in a circle of maximum 500m diameter around the bus. If you think: Man, this is crowded, either wait 15 minutes a walk a little further and off the beaten tracks and you will be alone again.One last word: Should you consider to spend an additional 30 bucks for the Glacier Skywalk, think about it again. The spot, where Brewster has built this “thing” has been a parking space with a nice view until the beginning of this year – and it was for free!!! Now they charge you and the money is directly transferred into the pockets of Brewster – nothing at all stays in the park. In my opinion projects like this should be boycotted.This is the main reason, I rate the Icefield just 4 stars."
"As part of a planned tour of the Rocky Mountain area we spent half a day visiting and travelling to the glacier. The visit begins at a large reception building that also doubles as a bus terminal for tourists in, and glacier vehicles out. It also the terminus for another attraction further down the road called the ""Sky Walk"". This is a suspended glass floored curved walkway that allows breath taking views of a deep gorge. The ice bus is a special vehicle high up on huge wheels and holds about 30 people. They are custom made and there are only twenty three in existence (22 at the glacier and one with the Canadian government). The ride crawls over the moraine field and up the slope of the glacier to a plateau where you disembark for a few minutes on the ice. Tourists are asked to remain near the bus as there are deep fissures in the ice that can be fatal. The glacier is disappearing a few metres each year and is an area of natural beauty. The Canadian park authorities are extremely protective of the environment and it is rumoured that this attraction may lose it's license in the near future. Clearly an amazing one off experience, with little or no physical effort. See it before it disappears off the map."
"Very well organised tour.Though the Restaurant can be busy.Food is nothing special.You are transported to the perimeter by coach, and then onto the impressive Snow Coaches.We had a running commentary by Patruck the driver.We had a blizzard throughout which added to the atmosphere.Altogether a great experience."
"Approx 1 hour out of Jasper it started to snow. Exciting as I had not seen snow fall since 1976. Great videos from the bus but increased snowfall restricted viewing. On arrival at the departure point, we were greeted by approx. 75mm snow. Eventually reach the ice field where views were restricted to approx. 10m. Still an experience to be treasured"
"I'm sorry to disagree with most reviewers, but I hate it when natural features such as this glacier is ruined by tourism experts who milk it for all its worth and take away any semblance of natures awesome majesty. Quite simply, by turning the Columbia Ice Field into some kind of theme park and money making enterprise for the Canada Parks is tacky. OK I accept that many people will never have previously been on a glacier before, and will be amazed, but how many actually learn anything at all? If you want to be surrounded by thousands of selfie taking visitors on a glacier, then give your holiday money to this ripoff cynicism, I recommend the free views elsewhere."
"Awesome place to visit ! Jaw dropping views but a lot of walking !
Very crowded with other tourists and busy."
The Skywalk is overpriced for what it is and the walk itself is not anywhere near the Glacier. It's best to park up opposite the discovery centre and walk to the bottom of the glacier. Much better and it's free.
"We must have gone to about 50 glaciers in Alberta, B.C., and Alaska. I think this is the only one that we're allowed to walk on. Not to be missed."
"Though this is a nice experience, the price his risen dramatically in recent years. You can take a nice hike to the tip of the glacier without the expense."
What a treat! Take a bus from the Icefield Center to the area where you get the Ice Exploration vehicle which takes you directly to the glacier for a brief walk and pictures. if you bring an empty bottle you can fill it with pure glacial melt for a delicious drink. Keep in mind you will be walking on ice and it is VERY cold. You should dress very warmly and wear proper foot gear- not flip flops!! The whole experience was very enjoyable.
"We took the guided tour to the glacier and skywalk. Expensive but a great experience. Our young children (who rode free) enjoyed everything too. We didn't buy tickets ahead, arrived almost after open and managed to get on a bus 30 minutes later. It was starting to get very crowded though and I imagine the wait would only get longer. We watched a bit of the free movie downstairs while we waited. It was very good, even my 4 year old enjoyed it. The views on the glacier are amazing and when the kids are older, we will definitely be hiking it instead."
"One of our favorite places on the planet. We did the guided glacier walk in 1988. We did the special bus onto the glacier in 1993. While the busloads of tourists at the ice field center is a turn-off, we understand that this is the method most people use to get to this magical place. Book ahead if you want to partake in the commercial services provided. However, know that you can make the free (with park admission) 30-minute hike from the ice field center (10 minutes from a parking lot below the glacier) to a hill overlooking the toe of the glacier and the milky river flowing from it. This lookout location was under ice the last time we were here, documenting for us the glacier's recession. If you can stay after the daytime crowds have departed, you will get to experience the true magic of this place, complete with glacier-generated weather and stunning sunsets. As a place to visit, I would award it with 5 stars; the masses of tourists we encountered at the ice field center this time caused me to lower my score."
I grew up loving this place. One cant get enough of the glacier experience nor its breathtaking beauty. I adore Mt. Andromeda the most in the area.
"In spite of heavy smoke from forest fires, we thoroughly enjoyed this trip onto the Columbia Icefield. Tall Mike, the driver of the Icefield Explorer, handled the patter beautifully, making every story or joke feel fresh and original (though all guides are trained to say the same things). Other reviewers have made a good suggestion: book ahead. Brewer has the corner on this market. The company's buses offer several tours and offer package deals. But from our perspective, the best reason to book ahead is that you avoid a long queue and potential disappointment. A bus takes you from the Columbia Icefield Centre to the point where you board one of the huge-tired buses that can handle the steep, shifting terrain. From there it is a short ride out onto the icefield. The 20-minute stop there is sufficient to get a sense of the majesty of the icefield and to fill a bottle with glacier melt."
Stopped off here as part of our rocky mountaineer tour with snow greeting us & a great view. Staff were great & it all ran smoothly getting to the glacier & back to the centre. A special mention to Kiefer on the great commentary on & off the glacier.
This is one of the few areas where you can actually walk upon a living glacier. The guides are great and the information given was very informative. Visitor center was little crowded but doable.
"I visited the glacier as a teenager and was sort of meh about the experience, and hadn't been back until recently. Clearly nothing impresses teenagers, because I was REALLY impressed as an adult.The tour is educational, super unique, and really quite a novelty, especially in summer, to be on the ice. Totally recommend drinking the water--it is the freshest water you will ever drink and you can make a snow cone with the slush. The new process of being assigned a reservation time can make getting on the glacier a bit tricky (we had a +2 hour wait) but the new facility is a fine place to kill some time if you don't have anywhere to be."
"I highly recommend purchasing tickets as a combo at ""http://www.brewster.ca/canadian-rockies/destinations/banff/activities/explore-rockies-combo-packages/"". We bought the ""Glacier Explorer"" package which included Glacier Adventure and Glacier Skywalk. It is truly a once in a lifetime experience. I loved the blue ice and the purest water. Well worth it.On a side note, I would like to mention our Ice Explorer driver, Patrick, the Australian. He did a nice guided tour, no questions here. However, there is one thing that still irks me. According to Patrick, he has been working there for 2 years. I believe, someone should tell him that the Canadian Flag should never touch the ground. Let me explain. Since this was the last tour of the day, Patrick was doing a clean sweep, preparing the area for the next day. He was picking up safety cones and tossing them over the glacier water creek. When visitors were done taking pictures with the Canadian Flag, he yanked it out of the ice and also tossed it along with the safety cones. In my opinion, this is considered a Flag desecration. If you must remove the Flag, take it back to the Columbia Icefield Glacier Discovery Centre, but never let it touch the ground. Be respectful. Thank you for listening."
"One of the highlights of our family's summer vacation at the Canadian Rockies! The ride on the monster snow bus Ice Explorer was awesome! The steep incline going to the Athabasca Glacier was so exciting. Make sure you wear warm clothing - windy at the glacier. Bring a water container to taste the sparkling glacial water! The driver-guide shared a lot of interesting historical information on the formation, decline, and effects of the glacier field on the environment."
"We hiked up to the bottom of the glacier, which was about a 20 minute climb. The info panels were good. It was a little disappointing to see all the tour busses driving onto the glacier. It can't be good for the long term sustainability of the area."
"VERY IMPORTANT: Buy your tickets at Brewster and get the one of the packages! If there are more than one adventure you want to do, this makes it much cheaper. We did the Vista Explorer which included the Banff Gondola and the Skywalk in Jasper. the total for all three was 99 Canadian dollars. Overall the glacier experiences was awesome. I really recommend booking the earliest time slot as there were only 6 other people on the tour with me and my friends which gave us more time to explore around the glacier and just be. This also gave us a chance to breath and enjoy where we were without millions of others in our pictures or squishing us in the bus. The glacier itself was very cold so please wear something warm, especially waterproof shoes and warm socks. It was worth the money and was a great experience and made for some really awesome pictures. However, DO NOT eat the meals inside the ice center. That meal was hands down the most disgusting chicken, if you can even call it that, that I have ever had. Stick to their muffins and coffee which I do recommend.Overall very satisfied and very glad we did the glacier experience!"
"Amazing, incredible, life changing experience.I travel a lot, and this is one of the most amazing places I've ever been, right up there with the Grand Canyon.Going here is like being on another planet. One thing to keep in mind, the altitude is quite high, ~9000 feet, and you may or may not feel the affects of it.I was light headed for about 45 minutes until I got used to it."
"This was a most amazing experience, the glacier was breathtaking, it was quite cold and windy on the glacier but spectacular. The ride up on the big bus was fantastic, they are huge but you get fantastic views on the way up. Standing on the glacier was an amazing experience, I felt as though I could actually feel it moving under my feet. Well worth the experience."
We've been here twice and both in the middle of summer. The views are stunning. Always take warm clothing as there is a constant cool wind!!This is an experience that everyone should have at least once in their lifetime. It is also an education.There is parking at the rim and the walk is a short one although a little steep.
We found this interesting. Took the tour and walked on the glacier. Guide was very informative. Expensive but would recommend.
"worth the small climb to see it in person. a must see if in the area, dramatic to see the glacier reduction over the years... a real eye opener."
Great place to stop but expensive to walk on the Glacier. $80 per adult not for those on a budget. The walk up to the Glacier foot it tough and although you can see the Glacier closer you can not see the foot of it.
"My wife and I were driving on the highway through the ice fields and we were amazed at how much you can see from the highway. So we frequently stopped to take pictures of the ice fields, each stop giving us a different vantage point. Part of the excitement in seeing the ice fields is realizing how massive they are. I can't help but think that we should see them now before they become even smaller. It brings the problem of global warming to the forefront."
So amazing to see the glacier field and the surrounding mountains. The tours onto the icefield are unforgettable! A must do if in the area.
"I wrote a full review on the one located in the banff section
Had a great time on the truck and on the glacier. Not as slippery as I expected
Cafe over priced and it is extremely busy.
They do cater for disabled visitors."
"If you go to Jasper, you have to stop at the glacier and if you can take this big foot bus which will take you on the glacier itself! It is an experience of a lifetime. It really is worth it!! The driver was fun and knew a lot of facts. In the summer it is a busy place so I recommend booking online. It is a very touristy stop so the place loses a bit of its charm. It is beautiful to see all these glaciers and learn about them."
"Worth the visit and the entry fee!! The pictures don't quite do it justice.It's pretty amazing to walk on a glacier, the snow bus ride is awesome and the sky walk was great too which was part of the ticket and is a short bus ride away.Restaurant facilities and public toilets were very busy as you could imagine! - I would suggest bringing your own food as is very expensive!"
"We visited this attraction as part of a tour package while riding on the Rocky Mountaineer. The trip to the glacier is by a specially built but (see photo). If the weather is nice it's an excellent experience. We got there during a sleet storm with 30 mph winds and our spirits (and clothing) were dampened, to say the least. Returning to the main building we needed something to eat and were a bit surprised at the high food prices in the cafeteria: $32 for two, less than fast-food quality burgers, a small order of fries and one small soft drink (ouch!). On top of that we had to stand in line for 10 minutes to place our order. Pack some food if you go and save a bundle."
The path up to the glacier was really steep and the view wasn't that great. I think the view would've probably been better from the welcome center across the way.
"See glaciers, mountains, rivers, wildlife as you travel. Slow down if you see stopped vehicles, as they are probably photographing wildlife. I have been lucky enough to see black bear, bighorn sheep, elk, and mountain goat, all without getting out of my car. If you want to get out for a better look, make sure you know what you are doing. These guys are not house pets."
"Fun and friendly tour guides made our trip exiting.They told us jokes and facts about the ice field.One joke was, it toke a day to go up Mt Athabasca and for a bad climber, it toke 86 seconds to go down.In the ice fields, the blue ice and the ice cold rivers made the trip fantastic.Be careful,if the ice cracks,you are going to be in the ice cold water. I recommend you to go early in the morning or later in the afternoon because in that time, it is not so crowded.The ice fields is located about an hour and a half from Jasper and 2 hours from lake Louise."
"Ive always wanted to see a glacial fields and finally got to see and walk on it in Jasper! It is very easily accessible and you get straight to the Icefields.Well worth the drive up to finally get to see it. We went in the summer, so there were patches where the ice was melting to the point where some parts were suspect in terms of walking over.. But they warn you about those in signs as you get there.Great view to see!"
"On our Globus Tour we stopped at the Columbia Ice Field! We took one of the specially outfitted buses up to the top where we could get out and walk around. It was spectacular! Make sure you wear appropriate footwear when going up there as it is slushy and slick. Also bring an empty bottle for some fresh, clean glacial water to drink! Well worth the trip!"
"The Columbia Ice Field is still beautiful, though the glaciers are rapidly receding. There are beautiful views and magnificent snow-topped mountains wherever you look. Icy blue streams sparkle in the sun along the roadways. Take your time driving this roadway. You don't want to hit any wildlife. We didn't see any on this trip, but maybe they're out there somewhere. I hope so. There are lots of pullouts for great photo opportunities and rest stops are available as well. We first visited this area in 2007 (see my review). It has changed since then. Be careful when you drive the road, especially near the popular sites. People get excited to see these places and don't always think about safety."
Having hiked on and travel to glaciers the Glacier Crawler was the easiest way we have traveled to a glacier. The trip up begins with a short bus ride from the Ice Centre to the Glacier Crawler terminal. There you board the Crawler for a 20 minute slow ride to the glacier field. You see the many layers of rock and glacier formations on the trip up and back from the glacier. You spend about 20 minutes on the glacier itself. If you have never experienced a glacier this is a good way to start but if you have hiked glaciers this will be a little disappointing.
"Amazing to see the Columbia Icefield! Be sure to take the Explorer tour and get out on the glacier! It's a once in a lifetime experience! The Discovery Center is also very interesting to look around, but do not need to spend too much time here."
"Around every corner there is another WOW moment. There are many lakes, streams and falls to see. Allow plenty of time to stop and enjoy the views. Make sure you have a full tank of gas, water and some food as there are not many places to stop along the way"
thrilling experience walking on a melting glacier with crystal clear and drinkable water running in channels around you. in certain areas the ice was almost translucent so you could sense the glacier slowly sliding down the mountain slope.
"The line for the Glacier tours had a 5 hour wait, so I ended up doing the quick walk up to the edge of the Glacier- it was pretty awesome. It is an amazing place, if you want to do a tour be sure to book online before heading up to Jasper especially in Summer- Make sure you wear covered walking shoes! It is icy up there all year round."
The views of the Columbia Icefield were apparent much sooner then before we arrived! It was absolutely breathtaking and I enjoyed seeing from a distance all the people like tiny ants making there way up the icy slopes. I took many pictures of the icy and snow capped mountain ranges and everyone looked different. The place was obviously a very popular spot hence all the RVs and tour buses. The signage was great for the more important areas of it. Would definately do this trip again and recommend it to anyone travelling the Jasper route!
"Short and sweet - no doubt about it, this is one very special place and it gives you the rarerst of chnces to get up close and personal with a glacier. I live up in the Southern Alps of NZ so I am used to mountains and glaciers but this place wows even some one like me!If you are anywhere near the Ice Field and you fail to visit .... You will be sorry :)It doesn't matter if you ride on the ice, take the bus, walk the paths or just gaze from the info centre and cafe .... You WILL be gobsmacked."
"My family (including 3 teenage children) did the walk on the glacier. It was led by an experienced and informative guide, great to see all the different aspects of the glacier. It was quite cold and windy so wear windproof clothing and use their hats and gloves."
"Such an awesome experience. The trip was approximately one hour with about 20 minutes spent on top of the glacier. Originally I thought 20 minutes was not enough but when we were at the top, it was quite cold. We took pictures FAST!Our drivers had great facts, stories, anecdotes about the glacier for us. They patiently answered all questions fired at them.I have a few recommendations: 1) TICKETS -- We bought our tickets in advance in the Brewster's Banff Office. We planned the particular time and day that we wanted to visit but I'd confirmed that if we missed the time (i.e., couldn't make it somehow), we could go into the offices to re-schedule a time. They have an office in Lake Louise too. 2) DRESS -- Everyone says to dress warmly. Bring lots of layers or warm clothing. You can always take off if you're hot. On the day we'd visited, it was about 7C at the pick up point (Columbia Ice Centre). When we arrived at the top of the glacier, our driver told us it registered about -5C. It was pretty windy that day and the wind could cut through clothing if you're not prepared. 3) Hiking poles for the elderly - If you're elderly, you may want to bring hiking poles to the top. I'd assisted and had at least one elderly person hold my arm to the bus as the surface was icy and slippery at times.We would love to visit again."
This was a rare experience to walk on a glacier. Quite exciting and although it was heavily supervised is potentially dangerous. The ice is melting at a terrific rate and holes are opening all the time as the ice melts under the surface.
"We came with our two children ages 2&4, we decided to walk to the ice field . It was chilly the further up you go but so worth it . Our kids loved it . It's so interesting to see where the ice came down to through the years . We will be doing this again but maybe take a actual tour this time !"
You can take a trail to the glacier and avoid the crowds waiting for the special bus. The trail is about one mile and has spectacular views. A very unique place!
Unbelievable to think the ice is as thick as the height of the Eiffel Tower in Paris. Loved the Ice Explorer. Cold though
This is a must vist place while you are in Jasper. Brewster has invested quite a lot of money to ensure that the ice-field (glacier) is maintained well and the tourists can enjoy. The buses that take us into the ice field are just huge. Don't miss the chance of standing on hendreds of years' old ice.
"What a magnificent place to visit. We had been there before and had done the tour that takes you by tractor/truck onto the glacier. This time we just walked up to it. Very, Very cold and windy. Beautiful."
"We didn't do the Glazier walk as we had flown to a glazier in Alaska - a much deeper and larger one. However, driving the Ice Field highway is a special trip. Stunning, awesome, unbelievably beautiful. If visiting the ICe Field centre, go early - it fills with thousands of tourists lining for food or excursions."
"skip the bus tour and save your money. Go up and hike with friends or family, for a good hour or two. Bring a coat for sure (and maybe a stick/cane)"
We decided to take the short walk up to the Athabasca Glacier rather than taking the Brewster Snomobile - it was worth it! The walk takes around 20 minutes and is fairly steady - you are greeted by the spectular 'foot' of the Athabascar Glacier. There are guided options available for those daring enough to take a walk on the glacier.
The coolest place in Canada :) What an amazing experience. I really enjoyed this. Bring water bottles and taste pure glacier water.
These glaciers are truly awe inspiring and what makes the trip between Banff and Jasper so picturesque. Plan on stopping a lot and taking pictures as glacier after glacier comes into view.
"Went on the Skywalk and then the Ice Explorer. Fairly expensive and lots and lots of fellow-tourists with associated queues and mass transportation on coaches. Having said that, the views from the Skywalk were wonderful and driving out onto the glacier was a pretty unique experience. So, if like us, you're unlikely to go that way again, why not go with the herd and try to enjoy the scenery? ."
"I went on both the Skywalk as well as the Ice field tour about a week ago with a friend. We had arrived just before noon. We had bought a combo deal for both the skywalk and the Ice field. The Discovery center as quite packed as soon as we walked in. We acquired our tickets and headed up to the cafeteria. The cafeteria was absolutely packed and we were very lucky to find a table that was just vacated just as we were looking for one. I think in hindsight it may have been a better experience to eat in the dinning room. The Skywalk consisted of a but trip to the Skywalk, a playback devices that give you information at several points along the walk path to the Skywalk. The patch is paved and walled, very family friendly, wheelchairs and strollers should have no issue. The trip to the glacier however was amazing. The shuttle bus ride taking us to the transfer point to board the Ice Explorer was only a few minutes long. The driver explained a little about the environment on the way to the transfer station. We boarded Ice Explorer #39 with Dakota as the driver. It was an amazing experience. Dakota was informative and engaging on the 15 minute trip to the glacier and the trip back to the transfer station despite likely having repeated the same information countless times. She was quite informed on anything anyone asked, was very easy to speak with and was quite entertaining. She made my first trip to the Ice field better then I expected it would be and I sincerely hope the next time I go back to the Ice field I am able to get back on Dakota's Ice Explorer again.Going to the Skywalk it would be best to bring:Camera, jacket and pants (thin sports pants should suffice) and it can get windyThe shuttle to the Skywalk will take approx 12-20 minutes.This walk can be done at your own pace with shuttles arriving every 15 minutes to return you to the Discovery Centre.*There are no washrooms at the Skywalk*Going to the Ice field it would be best to bring:Camera, jacket and pants as it will likely be windy even in the valley.A bottle or some other container for drinking the glacier water.The shuttle to and from the transfer point should be about 5 minutes.The Ice Explorer ride to the glacier will be about 15 minutes.There is about 15-20 minutes on the glacier.As you will very likely be taking the same Ice Explorer back to the transfer station there should be no issue with leaving some belongings on the bus while on the glacier.The bus I was on is not wheelchair or stroller friendly, however they may have a newer bus that would be more accommodating."
"a wonderful place to go specially during summer time. remember to wear thick cloth as when you go to there, you will feel that it is so cold there."
Seemed a bit of a tourist trap and crowded - we decided to skip the actual hike and just kept driving
"First thing - dress warmly! It might be a nice warm day in Banff or Jasper, but you're going up onto a glacier in a mountain! We saw people in miniskirts and shorts, and they looked absolutely miserable.The glacier itself is really beautiful. The compacted ice turns a gorgeous shade of blue in some places. The ride up in the truck was fun as well; the guide was funny and informative.We added on the skywalk package, and that was another highlight. It's an engineering marvel. I was terrified at first, but when I learned more about the structure, I ended up being fine with it. There also is a 'bypass' for those too nervous to actually step on the glass. And yes, the bypass still has stunning views."
Went on both the Ice Explorer and the Skywalk. Was on Brewster Tour (warning - tours get priority over independent travellers). Was expensive but worth it. Amazing views of multiple glaciers and the skywalk has incredible view into canyon - if I walked on glass floor anyone can.
"My husband and I were both tentative about walking on a glass floored walk out over a glacier icefield, but we did it. The view was fantastic. We even took time on the walkway to take pictures without getting anxious. Visitors get a self-guided audio tour telling about several exhibits scattered along the way to the skywalk. It was very well planned and interesting."
What an amazing sight! The glacier is so large it's difficult to understand its size until you see the tour buses driving onto it and the tiny specks which are people exploring. An absolutely incredible place and a definite stop on your travels from Banff to Jasper.
"Is walking on a glacier on your bucket list? This is the place. Buses take you across the highway to a special ice truck which will drive you out onto the glacier, itself. You then get time to walk around and take photos. Bring your own water bottle to capture some of that glacier water! There is a fee for this attraction. A must do! Enjoy!"
"We drove two hours from Jasper to the Columbia Icefield where they tell us there are no more busses available. They could not tell me why but mayby the Chinese tourbusses pre-ordered all the tickets and individual travellers have no chance to get on that bus? They did have room on the Skywalk but that was realy not what I came for. Anyway it was a total waste of our time, thanks for nothing!We went walking to the gletsjer instead but hat was not worth the effort to stand at a distance from the edge of a dirty melting gletsjer."
"We read many recommendations online to camp near the glacier - don't do it! We came here from Vancouver island @ 29 celsius to 6 Celsius (this was at 3pm in late JULY)It's beautiful - get out of your car, take some pics and keep on moving unless you have winter gear.......seriouslyWe thought we were prepared with sweaters and touques - nope - still very cold"
"Very overcrowded place with chaos on the car park. Just built to get your money. Selling of overpriced glacier bus trips. But only chance to get to the glacier skywalk. Not worth it, because you're carried like cattle with thousands of others to walk three minutes over that skywalk"
"It astonishes me that people think it's ok to travel up this glacier on a huge bus and then lament its passing as a result of man-made climate change.Having said that, like so many others in Canada, I drove up in a huge US-style 4x4 that was giving 14mpg while I was using it.This is just something you will pass while driving the Ice Fields Parkway - an utterly spectacular drive that is unmissable in itself.I returned to this attraction after a gap of 8 years; sadly, it had retreated 2-300 feet in that time and there was a quite forbidding river of melted ice running across its foot barring access.A bit sad really but I ain't gonna take that big ugly bus."
"We wouldn't have missed this for the world. As you drive the Icefields ParkwAy you see many glaciers. Here, you can get up close. If possible take the bus up and walk out on the glacier. It's worth the cost. The visitors center is well planned out. Don't miss the view from the front veranda. If you don't ride the bus up then be sure to drive across the road and walk over to it."
"This may once have been a good tour, but it felt like a cash grab. The talk given by the driver seemed informative but thin. Even if it was correct information, we could have read it ourselves from a pamphlet. But we went up the hill in two groups and each came back down with different facts about the same issues. So, we had learned nothing, and spent hours waiting in lines and transferring from bus to bus for the privilege of posing for photos in a slushy parking lot. The most interesting part was seeing the blue ice (after waiting our turn at the edge of the slush parking lot) and some mountain sheep on the way. We had thought we'd walk up the ice field a bit, but you can't. It's just a slushy parking lot with hundreds of other tourists taking turns posing in a handful of photo spots. And just below the site are the smart travellers, who drove to an area just below the ice fields and walked up a ways. For free. And they still had access to the gift shop through which we were all streamed when we got off the return bus. What a waste. Also, if you do go up there, be sure to get on the return bus from said slushy lot. The system is way less than perfect, with honking from buses that all look alike, and if you miss your own bus you may have to spend hours in the slushy lot before you can get a ride back down! Also, eat before you go. The very boring cafeteria food was prohibitively expensive."
"We were part of a bus tour, but any way you get a chance to see this, do it! It is spectacular from geologic, photographic and experiential perspectives. The ice explorer that takes you onto the glacier is fun, the glacier itself is awesome, and the setting is spectacular. The view from the lodge below is probably the closest you'll get to the view you would expect to see in the Swiss Alps, and yet still be in North America! Also- try a sip of the running glacier water!"
"Awesome experience. Enjoyed the trip on the $1.4M 6-wheel drive ""bus"" to allow us the opportunity to walk on, and drink from, an actual Glacier. Sad to think that 20 years from now, much of, if not all of, these glaciers will be gone. Enjoy it while you still can."
"We arrived on a beautiful summer morning and had an amazing time here. It is definitely worthwhile to take the Explorer tour up onto the glacier. Be prepared because it is cold up there!. Overall, it was a great family experience."
"I visited the Columbia Ice Field with my parents in the 70's. While the glacier has receded significantly, it is still a beautiful sight with the ice caves and spectacular mountain views. My wife and daughter truly enjoyed the stop. Don't just drive by. Get out and take a hike with a guide, or pay Brewster to drive you onto it if you are not up to hiking."
"Walking on the glacier was cool, the views are amazing and the super cool glacier buses are a fun part of the trip, you can even drink the fresh water that pours from the glacier"
"We loved this area. It was crazy to see how far the glacier has receded in the past 100 years. There was a trail that goes up to the glacier, but we took the bus tour instead and got to walk on it that way. You cannot really get a scale for how massive the glacier really is until you are up close to it. This was a once in a lifetime experience for us and we were so glad we did it! You may want to try to go early in the morning to beat the crowds. Dress warm or in layers because the wind coming off of the glacier is frigid. Also, bring an empty water bottle because you can drink the glacier water!"
It was nice to walk on a glacier but it took nearly two hours of waiting and travelling on various coaches for about 20 minutes on the ice.
We did not take the glacier bus because of the long wait time. We parked at the bottom of the glacier and walked approx 400m over rocks and shale (which was once covered by glacier) to the present glacier. The glacier is spectacular for its beauty but more disturbing is the extent the glacier has receded since 1983 where a sign has been placed.
"One of my favourite place and a must see on Icefield pkwy. Whether you take bus to adventure Glacier or hike upto foothill, either way it's Great.!!!"
We did an amazing 3 hour ice walk on the glacier last week. We organised this via the tourist information office in Jasper. As we booked ahead we could pick to depart at 1.30pm. This meant we could do the walk in transit between Jasper and Banff - which was a nice way to break up a long drive. We had a guide called Bernard from Ice Walks. He had 40 years experience of guiding and was very knowledgable about the Athabasca Glacier and the ice fields behind the glacier. This was a truly memorable trip. The surroundings are stunning and the walk up to the glacier is thrilling. However the biggest thrill is putting on the basic crampons and the striding out onto the Glacier itself. This is a once in a lifetime experience for many and we loved it. The ice is immense. Streams are running down the surface and there are huge mill wells where water has cut holes into the ice. The guide knows where these are and steers you well clear. (It was still amazing to see people walking out in trainers with no guide completely oblivious to the risks). You walk about 2 km up onto the ice. To my mind this seemed a better deal than the bus tour where you only got 15-20 minutes on a small area of the ice.
"The bus ride to the ice fields was fine, but then we loaded onto the Explorer and headed to the glacier. The Explorer moves slow, especially up and down the STEEP hill on the trail. It's a shame that we see this and other glacier melting. Make sure you make this a stop before it's no longer there!"
"Thank you for accommodating my dad to go up to the icefields! He is in a wheelchair & wasn't going to go.... The staff were very helpful getting him off/on the bus so he could enjoy the view. He stayed in the bus on the ice field, but could still enjoy from his window. The vehicles taking you up there are something else! The staff were very pleasant!"
It had snowed the night before and with the sun on the fresh powder it was spectacular. I highly recommend going early in the morning or later in the day. It gets really crowded with vehicles and people mid day.
"We drove down and took the 0900 tour, the first of the day, which worked out great since we were the only group on the glacier. It's best to order tix online and pick them up at the visitor center, which avoids having to stand in line there to purchase. At the visitor center you're loaded onto a bus, which takes you across the road to their glacier excursion vehicles, which are specially made for travel on the glacier. After a short ride you're unloaded on the glacier for about 15 minutes, followed by a ride back. The scenery is pretty interesting, and it's amazing to look at the striations on the mountains and realize that the glacier reached that high during the ice age."
"We did not do the bus tour, but I consider the hour or so we spent there worthwhile. If you doubt that glaciers are melting, this should change your mind."
spent an afternoon here with family. bit of a wait to get out to the fields but that is to be expected considering the amount of people trying to get out there ( approx. 1.5 hours waiting our turn for bus ride to the field ) wonderful experience and would highly recommend. great secondary bus ride over the field with tall mike and was good education for all on board.
"Worthwhile the journey to one of the best glaciers ever seen, which will unfortunately disappear relatively shortly"
we had a foot of snow when we got there in august but we had an amazing but freezing time on the glacier. we had a japanese driver on the snow mobile and he kept us laughing all the way down and up the road to the glacier.
This is a must see in spite of the busy parking lot. We didn't do any guided tours as we have been there many times. Interesting to see the changes over time.
"This experience exceeded expectations! Our driver, Matt, was very informative and entertaining as he drove us onto the glacier and back again. The vehicle itself was amazing and the experience of standing on the glacier, seeing and touching was incredible. Don't miss it!"
Very touristy very busy you can pay to go and walk on the ice or just view from a distance. We drove out about 1 and 1/2 hour gently drive from Jasper. Thought the prices were reasonable.
"Ice field experience is over priced. It is great to be able to get on the ice filed and walk on it. However, it is expensive for what we got out of it. I felt that it is not worth it at all.If you have time, walk the trail across HWY-1 from the Discovery center. It takes a lot more time and a lot more energy. You get more appreciation out of it."
Great area to park up and stretch your legs walking up to the ice field. Been in all seasons and must say that Jan -Feb is spectacular as not to many people around .
awesome experience bring a camera and good shoes for walking on ice and water. staff is amazing and very informative.
"Unique, crowded, expensive and a time consuming day trip. What we did not like about it is the horrible dust accumulations that surround you as you enter the glacier field. The summer is the worst for this dust. It is also a time when the ice melts the most and you get this filthy looking ice on the ground.Yes, it is a wonder of nature, but personally I'd have rather visited this in late September. It is open from May to October. I'm sorry and please refer to others' comments that will surely be more positive. BTW, the observation deck was fantastic. That we all really enjoyed."
"The ice field was fantastic and awe inspiring, the visitor centre however was over full, and felt like a sardine in a can. See the ice, but avoid the centre if possible"
"Everyone should visit this place at least once. Nice facilities with a gift shop, dining, and great interactive exhibits."
"We took the afternoon Ice Walk, and had an amazing time. This was the highlight of our trip. 3 hours out on the glacier learning about glaciology was a real winner for us and out 15 year old. Spectacular views, away from the crowds, and nice an cool on a very hot day."
Incredible for folks who come from a hot land like Australia. Ice as far as one can see. HUGE. So enjoyable and to be able to step out onto the glacier is unreal.
"Commercialized to the max. Where to start... visitor center is mobbed with people (who were very rude, constantly bumping into us). We got the heck out. Yes, it is a beautiful place, but when you look at it you also see tons of people, vehicles, roads, parking lot, etc. So sad to see people trouncing around and driving on a glacier when they are so quickly disappearing. All just to get a picture of themselves. Seems very disrespectful. Wish people would think a little more before going on one of those ice tours. This ice field area is all about exploiting a natural area to make a buck. This is not about giving people access to natural areas, it is all about money. Sad. I hope parks Canada sees this review. You can do better."
The hike on the glacier was unique. The buses are unique and the ride to the glacier itself is a memorable experience
"This magnificent vista is beautiful beyond belief. The only negatives are long waits for shuttle, short time on ice field but the experience is well worth the wait."
"we have been in the Columbia Ice Field with friends. A wonderfull place in Jasper national park.It is recommended to buy tickets for all the attractions in the Rockies , before reaching the place , to save time queuing . This can be done in Banff"
"We went in the November, it was very cold . Drive slow, theres no rush, no one will be around during this time. When we arrived to the ice fields we were taken away by the beauty. Its gorgeous in the summer, but when theres snow all around it definitely an experience you will never forget. We walked as far as we could and took amazing pictures. I definitely recommend coming when the snow falls, its a view you won't forget."
"The walk up to the viewing point was nice and easy.
Although not super close to the glacier, the view was fantastic."
Beautiful scenery punctuated with stops to walk at the waterfalls and a walk on the glacier. Saw a black bear walk into and swim in the river. Absolutely spectacular.
"This review is about IceWalks, a company that offers walks up the glacier, on foot, from the toe of the glacier right up onto the heart of the glacier. Make sure you go with www.icewalks.com Just to be clear, we did not do the Brewster’s bus tour. We could have taken a comfortable (costly and cossetted) bus trip onto the glacier for a little while, but my family wanted a longer and more personal encounter with the Athabasca Glacier and that’s exactly what we got, and more. If one is infirm walking on uneven ground, or pushed for time, then maybe a bus trip could be worthwhile, but if you’re fit and have time available, why would you? Walking on the glacier was amazing. Up close and personal, it was an unforgettable experience. The colours, including the browns and greys, as well as the shades of icy-blues and sparkling ice-whites, have to be seen to be believed. We held up a chunk of ice to the sun and it was diamond-clear. The touch and taste (yes, we ate some) of the glacier is memorable as is the sense of one’s smallness amongst the power of the natural processes taking place in and around the glacier. The landscape is awesome. The undulating nature of the glacier surface, hewn mainly by crystal-clear icy water, was impressive – close encounters with deep icy-blue holes, arches, meandering rivulets, waterfalls and cracks were unforgettable. We walked about 2.5km up the 6km glacier, and zig-zagged our way across most of it in our 3hr “Ice Cubed” Walk. We loved the sense of adventure, of being on the ice, in (company provided-) crampons. I wish we had booked the longer Deluxe walk!Our guide Richard was a really nice guy, very knowledgeable (the tour is an interpretative one, not just a walk) and he explained very simply and clearly many of the landforms and natural processes going on around us (Mars Bars will forever taste differently!). He also made sure we were safe (it’s not a risk-free environment) and is an experienced mountaineer.This was one of my top highlights from 2.5 weeks in western Canada. The Company was professional, expert, and customer-focused. The environment was stunning: powerful and beautiful. The experience was informative, eye-opening and unforgettable. www.icewalks.com #HighlyRecommended"
The staff was great. The bus ride fine. The trip on the snowbus out onto the glacier was amazing. 32% grade. WOW. Then you stop at a snow parking lot and are allowed out for 15 to 20 minutes. There really wasn't much to see except for people taking pictures of themselves and each other. Boring. As I say the trip to and from was the best part.
Interesting place to visit. Giant icefield in a middl of summer. We visited it two times on the way from Banff to Jasper and from Jasper to Lake Louise
"Going up on the ice is amazing, the guides are very knowledgeable and friendly. My groups drank the glacier water and lived the experience."
Breathtaking scenery. It was a real thrill to stand on the Athabasca Glacier. The Icefield Explorer buses were fun to ride.
"Excellent tour with Kiwi Dan. He had so much knowledge about the glacier and much trivia to be shared. Dress warmly even on a hot day, its cold on the glacier. Bring a water container to collect and drink some glacier water. Adults $55 and up."
"The Columbia Ice Field is great, but there are so many people that it's so painful to visit. It is not relaxing or enjoyable. Also, the cafe food is horrible. Service was rude. Take a picture of the ice field from the view point and keep driving. Not worth the three hours it takes."
The size of this glacier is quite staggering. It can be viewed across the valley from just off Highway 1.
"I felt conflicted about going here. One half wanted to be able to say that I had stepped onto a glacier, but the other half was quite sad that something this beautiful is being commercialised in this way. The whole place was extremely busy with masses of cars in the parking lot. The journey up to the glacier was very entertaining and informative. We got 15 mins on the ice. I felt quite secure wearing walking boots. Not sure trainers would cut it. You do need to take some warm clothes.The cafe was extremely busy at lunchtime."
"Walk on the glaciers is a must, then remember to do the skywalk, apparently opened only last year, All visitors to the Rockies this is a must."
"You can feel the excitement build as you step onto the snowcoach. Brilliant commentary from the driver, impressive knowledge of the subject with a dash of humour. Make the most of your time on the glacier, it flies by, my 2 young children didn't want to get off."
"Enjoyable day at the Ice Fields. It was a good experience and interesting drive out. Make sure you arrive early as the crowds get heavy at about 10:30. Please note, when the driver tells you to be on the bus at a certain time, listen. The bus will leave if you are there or not. Our bus left with 2 people chasing after it...they will not stop for you. I would not go again, but happy I experienced it."
Had chicken soup while relaxing with the view of the ice fields. Didn't make it to the glacier as parking for a 5th wheel was at the discover center and the glacier is a good 30-45 min walk from there. Lower parking area closer to the base of the glacier didn't appear to accommodate bigger units.
"We went as part of a trip which was great as no queuing or waiting for our explorer .if on own get there early or late to avoid long queues ! A great adventure loved the truck and Kiwi Dan 's commentary very interesting and funny he was .A good trip for young old fab to walk on glacier ,drink cold water ,see waterfalls and different forms of ice/ water colours .Give it ago !"
"Yes there are a lot of tourists, yes you could walk to the toe of the glacier free, but the tour, the guide, the humongous snow buses, and the experience on the glacier (even though it really a cleared parking lot!) are totally worth it. Wish the time on glacier was a bit longer(it's only 15 minutes on the ice) but oh well. I mean you are probably only going to do this once in your life. Try to get there as early as possible to avoid the billion tourists (we stayed at hotel) although slight risk more cloud in morning. Also do the Skywalk after as it is worth it."
"The Columbia Ice Fiel in itself is magnificent. A huge panorama of ice, so impressive !But what a despair to see all those over-eqquiped buses wandering on the top of it ?Given the speed at which the field is melting and declining (its quite hard to see the signs indicating where the icefield was only 20 years ago...), I guess this would be a great idea to only allow visits...on foot."
"Super fun attraction. It was all very organized and just to be able to say I ""stood on a glacier"" is pretty cool. My guide ness was very informative and fun and gave lots of history and facts which made it that much better. Definitely recommend."
Quite touristy but worth the visit in my opinion. Pretty amazing to walk on a glacier and taste glacial water. A bit sad that the glacier is retreating rather quickly so definitely worth going now. The Brewster operation is pretty well run and they handle the huge crowds well. Would have liked a little more time on the glacier. I did not think the skywalk was worth doing however.
"Went by ice field bus to the glacier, what a ride, not for the faint hearted, but very safe. It was a sunny day and the light shinning through the ice always amazes me. Certainly something worth doing if you are in this area"
This is a very special experience for the children specially coming from a warm climate country. The guides are very good. A little expensive and you can skip the skywalk.
"What an interesting thing to do. A short 5 minute bus ride will take you to the busses that bring you to the glacier. The ride from there is about 10 minutes. Our driver was super nice and friendly and very knowledgeable, Everyone loved him. The glacier is amazing and safe/danger zones are well marked. There is a chance to drink the water which tastes wonderful. It is wet and chilly up there so dress appropriately. The staff also seem to be conscious of their environmental effect on the glacier which was nice."
Such an awe inspiring drive along the Icefield Parkway. The glaciers are magnificient-so large and unlike any that I have seen up until now. The road has nice large shoulders and plenty of pull outs to take pictures
To park where the glacier once was thick and walk up over rock once long covered by thick ice to the foot of the present day foot of the glacier is remarkable. To look to each side and up at the top of the ridges to see how thick it once was where you are walking is amazing. To ponder why it is retreating so rapidly gives one pause to reflect. If drove up the parkway to marvel at the scenery you must stop and take this in.
"We booked the 6 hour 'Deluxe Ice Walk' and it was incredible. The team are very friendly, well experienced and well equipped - so they made sure everyone had the right footwear and layers before we set off. The day started in bright sunshine but we experienced a very short but dramatic storm whilst we were walking so we were grateful that we all had the right clothing. The 6 hours was exhausting but we would all (2 adults and 2 teenagers) definitely recommend it!"
"There's a big parking area and the view is magnificent, but otherwise, this spot has turned into a giant tourist trap. Unless you plan to spring for a tour or hike to the glacier, a ""stop and look"" here is sufficient."
"We had an excellent time at the Columbia Ice Field Center with the Brewsters' company who also offer the sky walk activity. We were on a road trip and drove straight up the highway connecting Banff and Jasper. Turn off to the right when you see a glacier on your left, park anywhere and take pictures with the statues of bears and a goat. The longest wait will be for the Glacier tour, the Sky walk tour can be done in less than an hour. There is a cafeteria for you to buy slightly expensive food but it's not bad. The bus tour its self starts when you first take a tour bus to the glacier then transfer to the monster wheel buses that take you out onto the ice. The ice here is thicker than the Eiffel tower is tall, also, its about 70% smaller than it used to be when it was first discovered. Lots of good humor and educational moments during the tour, you get about 15 minutes on the glacier to take pictures (i know it doesn't seem like much) but it is pretty chilly and should suffice. There is one thing you need to be aware of even if you buy your tickets and print them out before hand, you need to line up to obtain tickets that have times for when you will be able to attend the attraction. If you have already printed your tickets out online, proceed to the desk beside the gift shop to get your time for the tour. have fun!"
If you aren't a mountain climber how often can you go and stand on a glacier? So you have to do it. The enormous bus
"From purchasing our tickets, the bus ride there and actually standing on the glacier, this was a very well organized and informative outing! ! Such an awe inspiring place to visit!!"
This was one of the true highlights of our tour of the Canadian Rocky Mountains. Stopped at the visitor centre before taking one of the amazing vehicles up on to the glacier itself. Got to spend time walking on the glacier which is hundreds of feet thick with crevasses and sinkholes all over. Perfectly safe provided you do as the guides say. If you get the chance to go then do. Its excellent.
"The weather was really wet on my visit here leaving me not wanting to do much out doors except for the fact that I was in an amazing place so I made the effort. Thankfully, having been here before I have experienced how awesome this is especially when you can fully see it."
We climbed Wilcox Peak Hike and got an excellent view of the Columbia Ice Field. spectacular! I highly recommend this hike as a way to see all of the Ice Field.
"At first we wanted to take the bus on the icefield. Too expensive
We were able to park below the glacier and to walk nearby
Enough for us
Spectacular view"
"The views along the Ice Field Parkway were spectacular and were topped off by our stop at the Columbia Ice Field for a walk on the glacier. The area on which we walked was tightly controlled and safe, but you will want to wear sturdy footwear and warm clothing because the wind is quite strong. Be sure to take in and take out a paper cup to taste the icy pure glacier water!"
"We really enjoyed this experience. Is it touristy--- of course. That's inevitable. We expected that. However, it was still fun and different!! We arrived here with a group as part of our Rocky Mountaineer experience. Even though the visitor center was crowded, the cafeteria service was efficient. We had lunch and then boarded our bus for the short trip ( across the road) to the glacier crawler, which is a large, high bus with huge wheels. The glacier crawler bus took us sloooowly to the glacier ( and the driver was very funny). It's true that the glacier was full of other people walking on and looking at the glacier. Still, it was a unique experience and a thrill. My profile picture was taken on the glacier."
This was indeed one of the highlights of our Globus tour! The young people that take you there are very friendly and seem to enjoy their job! The ice jammers are incredible and just being on the glacier was a great experience! We were lucky to have nice weather and it was a memory we will remember always! Don't miss this great place!
"Awesome experience...never did I think I would walk on a glacier. We filled a bottle with melted glacier water (supposed to make you younger...still waiting). The vehicles that take you onto the glacier are amazing and our guide, Thomas, was so funny. This is something you won't forget. Downside:very crowded, food was expensive, and our reservation was messed up by their computer."
"Plan to spend some time at this wonderful place. The six of us chose different things to see as we had not planned on spending the entire day on this stop. Some rode out to the glacier, some hiked to the glacier, and I chose to experience the Skywalk. After our various adventures, we met for lunch and afterwards were on our way. It is hard to believe that the area including the visitors center and parking area was once part of a glacier!"
"A must do but very expensive. You don't get long on the glacier but as you have come all this way you may as well do it. Please note get some food in Jasper as the prices here are very expensive. Also get to the queue early as we turned up 10 minutes early and they had already boarded, they were waiting for us but didn't bother making any announcement for another 15 mins and kept us in line. A certain lack of communication / chaos."
"OMG, how gorgeous is the Columbia Ice Field, so awe inspiring, and really makes you stop and take stock of how tiny/insignificant we are on this planet."
I wish they would close it to tourists. i loved being able to show it to my Grandsons but over the decades I have seen it disappearing I think the bus and grater traffic is not helping. I first witnessed it beauty in and 1970 and am watching it's tragic decline
"How many people get to actually walk on a glacier and drink water from water flowing from a glacier? The big tall 6 wheel drive ice buses are the quickest, safest and environmentally sound way for people to experience a glacier and understand why keeping these from disappearing is a real issue facing us, no matter our political beliefs."
This spot is great and well worth the stop on the amazing Parkway Icefield drive. We spent around 45 mins here just looking at the awesome glacier and taking photos. we just parked in the car park at the bottom and did not spend any money!
"We took the big tired bus up to the ice field. It drives you right out onto the ice where you get to get out and walk around. Imagine being on such old glacial ice! We were also invited by our bus driver to use a plastic bottle to capture some of the glacial melt. However, we didn't have any with us so we weren't able to do it. It was a very cool experience to see this up close, but I have to admit afterwards my husband and I felt a bit guilty going onto the ice since it is slowly melting away. Just seems like all the driving and walking on it hastens the process. We bought a 4 attraction pass at the center and this was one of them and well worth the money. It's one of those once in a lifetime experiences. And don't forget to take a jacket with you - it was a very warm day but very cold when we got out on the ice!"
"Remembering when we could see the fields right to the highway. Now long lines of mostly international visitors patiently waiting to see what is left
A money maker but best they can do to show what Canadians once had as a natural beauty"
"The only and I mean only reason I am giving 4 out of 5 is due to the issues we had trying to get on the actual tour with prepaid tickets otherwise this attraction is a slam dunk! After a short bus ride to the glacier transfer point we were on our way! Our host was absolutely fantastic, her name is Ness and she made the trip quite enjoyable with little jokes and lots of facts about the ice fields and the glacier. Big kudos to her! Once there we got to experience one of the true gems in Canada! Drink pure glacial water? Don't mind if I do! Plan I'm advance and bring or wear warmer clothing because even on a hot day like today where is was 29-30 in Jasper it is quite a bit colder out on the ice!"
"The Columbia Ice Field is a stop everyone should do in their lifetime. It is cold as it should be so come prepared with warm clothing. Do not drive on by, you must take the time to absorb what you are experiencing."
"To walk on a receding glacier, gather the ice cold glacial waters and view the majesty and power of nature is incredible. Definitely worth the money."
Budget 3 hours and experience walking on the glacier ice! The crowds in the peak summer season can be a bit off putting but try to enjoy this amazing piece of nature! It's a big expensive but worth it. The New Skywalk is also worth it.
"We did the tour combo package, the Skywalk and the glacier tour, the glaciers are so incredibly beautiful and the tour driver was hilarious."
Arrived to find that we should have made a reservation in advance for our Icefield Adventure...I should have known that since it is prime tourist season.The most disappointing thing for our family was that only 3-4 year markers remain intact to signify where the glacier has receded from since a certain year. I would think the Park staff should be aware the signs are missing and should be eager to replace them to show the devastating effect global warming has had on this particular area....a teaching moment missed by the thousands who visit.
The Columbia ice field was really neat to see. No shortage of people. I would advise going in the morning.
This is absolutely the best place to visit. You feel a piece of history with every step you take. Dress warm the weather changes quickly.
"Beyond amazing!! This is a must do!! Being on the glacier was surreal. It gives you perspective, standing there on the glacier in the middle of the Rockies. You'll never experience anything like it! The guides were very informative as well. I just wish we could have stayed there longer. Make sure and drink the water - beastly cold, but so pure and refreshing."
We did the bus unto the icefield mostly for my son But in fact we all loved it. Be careful! two of us stepped through the ice into glacial water. I recommend that you have spare shoes and clothing back at the car. still fabulous.
"Be sure to get there early to avoid the tour busses. We arrived around 9:15 am (tours start at 9). Great experience. Recommended to start with the Ice Field and then travel to the Skywalk (due to crowds and also the time is unlimited at the skywalk). Watch out for the 'mill wells"" -- I fell up to my knee in freezing cold water. It made memories and the rest of the family got a kick out of watching it (fortunately -- we had a change of socks in the car)."
"Just did the short columbia ice field lookout trail. You turn west off the parkway and park at the base of the glacier. from there it is a short 1.5km look with a short rise to the plateau. You can't really see the glacier until you get up over the rise, but then you see it in all its majestic glory. Go as early as possible to avoid the inevitable crowds as this is a very popular attraction. You used to be able to just walk up and onto the glacier, but a river has formed in front, making it dangerous and it's been roped off. You can still climb on it, but you will need to go with a guide. If you have never walked on a glacier and this is your only chance....DO IT!!"
"The drive was fantastic with lots of places to stop for pictures and always clean ""outhouses""! Breathtaking views!"
"I have been to the Columbia Ice Field before as a child, but my husband, Mum-in-Law and daughter had not and I was keen to see it again, so off we went :) We drove along the Icefields Parkway from Jasper, stopping at a few sites along the way. When we arrived we immediately lined up for tickets for the Glacier Adventure where you take the snow-coaches onto the actual Athabasca Glacier, run by Brewster. We made it onto the last tour of the day, at 6:15pm. It is extremely well run and efficient how they call you 10 min before your departure time, your tickets are scanned, then you wait in line just a short time, less than 10 minutes, to board the transfer bus which will take you up to the staging area below the glacier. It was quite cold and windy at the staging area, but that is to be expected at such a high elevation, even in August. The transfer to the snow-coach was quick as well. Both drivers were informative, but our snow-coach driver, a young French-Canadian woman was hilarious! She did a wonderful job of giving us lots of information, but lots of jokes too. Once you are up on the glacier you are given 15 minutes to walk around, explore within the safe area and you can even drink the fresh glacial melt water straight off the glacier! Everyone was very professional and friendly, I would highly recommend this experience to anyone. It is completely worth the money (which you save 25% off of the price by showing your CAA or AMA or AAA card)!"
"I don't know of any other experience quite like this one. Even though it's not cheap & there are a million other people going there, it's good to do once in your lifetime just for the opportunity to actually walk on a glacier (please be careful, you might slip!) & see it from close up."
"A must see, but insanely busy during peak season. Line-ups for ice coach tickets were very long. Excellent views from the visitor centre."
Worth the trip to get as close to the glacier as possible. Arrive early - by lunchtime it was heaving and there was a wait to book the trip. Don't eat at the centre - food is awful.
"Wow. We had certainly read about the beautiful drive, and we were not disappointed. If you haven't been to the area, you must take this drive. The scenery is magnificent."
"The sight of the ice fields from a distance is stunning and even better up close, we were advised to visit before midday in peak times as it gets really busy & it does, after buying our tickets we had to wait 4 hours to get on the ice...Firstly you board a shuttle bus from the visitors centre to take you up the road to change to the Tundra to take you onto the ice field, you only get about 15 minutes on the ice, the whole thing takes about an hour, having said that it's really worth the effort, the staff are very helpful & the drivers were a lot of fun joking & making everyone laugh but were also quite knowledgeable, even taking a selfie of the whole group for one of the tour group, highly recommended"
It was a cool experience and an educational tour. It was a bit pricey for the tour. We had the fortunate opportunity to see a snow slide and a lightening storm on the glacier.
Can take awhile to get there. But well worth the wait. Unique experience. Good information shared by drivers. Efficiently organised. The toilets at the bus centre were disgusting! Overall great fun . Worthwhile.
So unbelievable to see the ice in july and watch the melt with the knowledge of what is happening. Last visited in 1973 and the amount it has receded was mind boggling. Still worth a visit and the legacy of the moraine left behind is a reminder of what once was. The moraine in the parking lot at the centre was the furthest the glacier ever extended. The new buses are phenominal in themselves
"My wife and I took Brewster's Ice Field excursion yesterday. What and experience! The views are stunning! Recommend getting advance reservations for a particular time, as the place is packed with tours and other travelers. You can either get on line or do so in person in their Banff office."
"If you have never seen a glacier up close, this is a great experience. It is a bit costly, but you can step around on a patch of ice, which is cool enough"
"Would not spend money to go and walk on snow and ice. It's okay, but the main center was way too crowded. But the food prepared out of the cafeteria was pretty decent. Expensive though."
"The Comubia Ice Field can be seen from the road - it is pretty impressive to see. There is a car park just off the roadside where you can view the sheer size of this glacier. You can also drive nearer to the icefield and then walk as far as the signs allow; do obey these signs they are there for your safety. Living in Norway, glaciers are the norm for us and we have seen many however this one is pretty impressive due to its sheer size."
For those who have never encountered a glacier then this trip would be fantastic. For us it was ok. The trip up with Brewsters was fun with the driver entertaining. You are given the chance to stand on the glacier for 15 minutes or so. If you do this trip remember to take warm clothing as standing on the glacier is cold with so much ice around you! The colours are interesting.
Exciting to be walking on a glacier formed thousands of years ago. You can even sample some glacier meltwater. Bring a warm jacket because temperatures on the ice field can be close to freezing. If you can't go up onto the ice (you have to go on their tour which is pricey and may be a bit of a wait) then you can take a short hike that brings you to the lower edge.
"Our waitress in Banff suggested stopping at the Columbia Ice Field to stand on the glacier. Well, you can't stand on the ice, because there is a chance you could fall through and hurt yourself. We didn't know this until we were close to the top of the walk up and there was a sign. The glacier is roped off about 100 meters away from the walkway."
Really neat to see. Bring a camera! Wear a sweater and good shoes as you have to walk a bit from parking lot. We did it on our own with a rental car. You have to sign up for a tour if you want to walk around on ice. There is a restaurant across the road as well as the only gas station between Jasper and Lake Louise.
"The ability to see the glacier this close is amazing. We first went to the Glacier hiking trail. took the short hike to the loop, and returned. Very cool location. the only drawback is that we didn't check in with the center first. Spending the time at the glacier first cost us the opportunity to take the trip on the glacier. We missed our window of opportunity. If you come, book in advance and plan accordingly. At a minimum, go there first to check your options before going to the glacier."
Travelled from Banff to Jasper as part of Colombia Ice field adventure. Tour guide and driver roland kept us all entertained and very well informed as he expertly drove. Access to the various stops was very good. Highlight of trip was visit to ice field. After an ample buffet in the adventure centre we went on the ice field Explorer. Nothing can prepare u for the experience of stepping out onto a Glacier.
So many beautiful stops along the Parkway. Be sure to allow many hours and keep getting out of the car to take in the scenery. Every stop is different. We stopped at a waterfall at the side of the road for a quick photo and then saw there was a trail that led us up higher and higher until we were practically under the falls. We didn't read about this in any tour book. Take the time to explore as it is so very worth it.
"It's nice to get so close to a glacier. It's nice to be able to walk on a glacier. The weather for us was nice. However that is where the niceness ends. There are all sorts of dire warnings about being late for the return shuttle. ""You will be left on the ice"", the sour little driver/guide said. He gave us 20 minutes on a little patch of slushy glacier, but left in 15 minutes. An elderly couple, who looked well into their 70s and possibly older sneaked on to our shuttle. They had missed their return shuttle. They were publicly humiliated and put off the bus. To my eternal shame, I did not stand up for them and make the officious little dictator take them back. The last I saw of the Columbian ice fields was this little elderly couple standing ,wearing little summer clothing, on the ice. Unacceptable."
"Incredible views, spectacular parks and hikes (not too long), beautiful glacier lakes and falls. Stop whenever you possibly can along this highway. Rocky wilderness at its most beautiful."
"The ice field is absolutely worth the drive from Jasper or Lake Louise. The Icefield Centre itself is terrible, but you can get wonderful views of the icefield from the road or--if you have time for a moderate, half-day hike--from the Wilcox Pass trail."
"Waited hours in line, the skywalk is a tourist trap, save your money and time.
The ice field is more worthy but still doesn't justify the time we waited for it."
"This appears to be a very popular tourist stopover. A bus ride to the glacier sounds exciting, but has now become very pricey. There is also a hike up to the edge of the glacier, which is free and more fun. Food is also very expensive."
"The Columbia Ice Field is worth a visit, but hopefully the weather will be better for you. It was raining with light fog and low clouds for us.The Centre was crowded with people buying tickets for the bus ride to the glacier and the skywalk, there were lines for the restaurants, and the indoor exhibits were closed for construction.But the Ice Field is the star of the show, and it is magnificent."
We went as part of an organised trip with a large group - visits are timed and ours was pre-booked - going speculatively on a busy day you should allow a fair bit of waiting time. It is a good overall experience and very easy to do. The ice-bus takes you onto the ice for about 15 minutes but the journey itself is also an experience and the ubiquitous Aussie guides were fine. It is not as good as the glacier experiences available in Iceland where the groups are smaller and on foot but if this is your only chance to get on a glacier (and maybe realise how threatened they are) then it is a good experience.
Recommend arrive early: the crowds are enormous: we arrived mid-day and were not able to get a tour until 430p: we returned first thing in the morning and had a 9am tour to the ice field. Very organized and friendly people running this tourist attraction. They bus you approx 10 minute ride to the ice field where you get a specialized vehicle that takes approx 20-25 minutes up on the glacier. It is very cold: you have 25 minutes to walk on the glacier: very cold so dress appropriately: mild sunny day it was 32 degrees F. The bus stays with you on the glacier then brings you back to the coach that then returns you to the visitor's center: recommend 1 1/2 hour total time and it is definitely a great time.
"In my opinion, this should be on top of the list of things to do in Jasper. The most awesome views of a glacier I've ever seen. Especially if you hike over the ice all the way to the top. Just beware of the crevasses!"
"We did not go on the tour but walked out to the glacier ourselves. The Icefield Centre is terribly crowded and was useful only to use their restroom and take photos from their balcony. The bus tour was too expensive and we would have had to wait for hours for an open slot, so we drove across the highway into the glacier parking lot and walked. You can also walk a longer route if you want to. There are signs along the way showing how far the glacier used to come out to the road, but it has been receding for some time now. The hike is very short but up a hill, cold, and rocky, so you must bring proper footwear and a coat. You can't actually walk on the glacier, because there is a creek in front of it, and the area is roped off. There are information signs to read once there. On the way up to Jasper, we also passed the Glacier Skywalk, which looked like a complete waste of money, so we did not do that."
The ice field is well worth a visit on your way up the icefield parkway. The background is interesting and I hadnt realised that what I could see was ice with a rock covering rather than the other way around. You can walk out onto the icefield but more sensible to get the organised and specialist buses which is what we did although the process of transferring from one bust to another is a little tedious
Stunning natural beauty. The new opened sky walk gives amazing views 980 feet over the valley. Going on the Athabasca Glacier on the vehicles is an unforgettable experience. The driver gives information on the glaciers and the natural history.
"We enjoyed the glacier adventure tour. Informative and friendly guides, and spectacular views. Don't forget to bring an empty bottle to fill up with glacier water!"
"Stunning views. Witnessesed a huge avalanche from afar. Be prepared for tons of people, tour buses, cars and crowds. Weather fluctuates drastically."
As Aussies we got a discount with AAA affiliation on our RACV card so make sure you ask if they don't. Our guy asked us which was great. The walk on icefields was fantastic as was driver. Pity he asked for a tip but had a great time.
Very informative. Knowledgable fun staff. We especially liked that the crews for these tours represent our global community.
A tour here was included in our vacation package. Very crowded but well organized. Ice crawler was pretty amazing. Even got to drink some glacier water.
This has to be a must visit when in the Jasper area but try and include in a package on some sort as it can be expensive to turn up and pay and also you may have a long wait to get onto the glacier.The 'buses' are certainly an experience and once on the glacier the views are spectacular. We went in May and expected in to be cold and were all prepared with boots and heavy jackets but we did not need these as the day was sunny with no wind on the glacier so it was very pleasant to get off the bus and walk on the ice. Only complaint is that it is so popular that you don't really get enough time on the glacier itself.
This is a popular activity so you need to book in advance. You meet at the restaurant and are taken down to near the glacier by their bus. From here you transfer to one of their purpose-built vehicles to go to the glacier. Each vehicle costs over a million dollars and the tyres are $5000 each. The drive to the glacier is short but exciting as you travel along the world's steepest road. On the way there you go down this perilous slope hoping that the brakes/engine can stop you from tumbling head over heels on to the ice. On the way back it is a steep climb up. The guides on both the bus and the vehicle give you an interesting commentary about glaciers and the flora and fauna. Surprisingly many of the drivers are young women - but don't let that put you off! You get to spend about 15 minutes on the glacier itself and that is a unique experience. Make a note of the number of your vehicle so that you don't get left behind. Also dress warmly as the wind can be pretty bitter up there. Overall a really magic experience.
"We decided not to pay the fee to take the bus onto the glacier, instead we did hike to the foot of it. They have markers showing where the the glacier used to reach, and seeing how much it has retreated during my lifetime was kind of scary. The lateral moraines also show how thick it used to be. It is well worth the stop but it is a bit of a steep hike, so those with mobility problems could have issues.The visitor center was really only of use if you want to do one of the paid tours, want an indoor washroom or want to buy a meal or souvenir."
"We originally planned to take the commercial bus tour that drives right onto the glacier, but when we arrived (about noon), we were told the earliest we could get on was 3.5 hours. We decided to pass, and instead chose to do the hike up the hill which takes you very close to the glacier, but not onto the glacier. We were happy with our decision. The hike is a bit strenuous, but views at the top are worth it. We took lots of photos at the top...and the decided to splurge for dinner that evening because of the money we saved. Dress warm (pants, jacket, hood). It's quite cold and windy up close to glacier."
"So this sells out pretty quickly in summer, we weren't able to go on our way there, but purchased a slot for the way back, good as we were thus able to avoid much of the hell that is the Icefields centre.It's a fun trip - good to travel in their special vehicles and the guides seemed genuinely passionate and knowledgeable about it all. Our son enjoyed collecting and drinking a bottle of glacier water.Kind of ironic though - our driver was giving us a talk about the eroding icefield and possible reasons for it, whilst we drive over it on a fume emitting vehicle (one of many) then disgorge to further trample over it. Did make me wonder if it was an environmentally sound excursion to be taking.Anyway if you have an interest in seeing it then go for it - just avoid the overpriced and underwhelming skywalk double ticket."
Avoid the crowds and get there ealrly. We arrived about 9.30am. By 11.30 am the place was crawling with people. It was great to enjoy the glacier with only a few people. Very well organised.
"Going to the icefields in the Ice Explorer was fun. On the day that we went, we experienced both summer-like weather and then snow and cold, all in the space of 3 hours. It was pretty exciting."
"We were so lucky to see this on a day it snowed!
When it rains in the plains, i.e. even just across at the icefield centre, don't be disheartened, it probably means you will get snow on the icefield"
"The good, you can get up close to a glacier. It is easily accessible. The bad, the building to buy tickets is a zoo. They are really not set up well to deal with the crowds. Its a madhouse. Do get your tickets on line so you dont have to wait in the extremely long lines."
Totally touristy but still a fun little excursion. The cafeteria food with some good Asian-inspired dishes was a pleasant surprise.
I'm glad I went on the tour up to the glacier because how many opportunities do you have to actually stand on a glacier without being a mountain climber? The down side is that the glacier was very crowded and the snow was dirty where the buses drive and people walk. I am glad that they keep the safe area to a minimum and the rest of the glacier is unspoiled.
This highway should be one of the worlds best drives. Around every corner is another amazing vista. So many awe moments.
"Make sure you visit the columbia ice field before it gets any smaller. Every time we visit this attraction the ice has receded more and more, it will be sad to see it disappear entirely one day, but such is the life of a glacier.It's a lot of fun to walk up on top and the giant buses are sure to impress people of all ages, but kids especially!Check out their new attraction the skywalk as well."
"I went here years ago. It was an otherworldly experience which has imprinted itself firmly on my mind's eye. If you ever have the opportunity take it, before the decreasing glacier shrinks back. It is a wonder of our world. I went way before 2014, but I feel I need to mention the exquisite beauty of the place regardless. Trip Advisor haven't given me an option for any earlier dates."
We did not went on the glacier itself with the tour so it may have missed the real fun. Not enough time to do it all! But it's worth the stop in the parking and walk in front of the glacier and see how it retracted over the years with the stones making the position of the glacier over the past few decades.
"Visited here on the Brewsters Jasper to Banff Glacier Adventure Tour. The coach dropped us off at the Ice Explorer pick up point. Great driver/guide drove us to the glacier, once there we had 30 minutes to wander in the designated area and take photos, then returned to our coach to do the Skywalk, another must do."
The center is very busy and really on set up to run tours out of and eat. Not much to read about the glaciers
"Plenty of parking spaces, Plenty to see. It was quiet expensive to eat and drink. Views were good from area"
"It was an excellent experience. The feel of being on 600 feet of ice, the cold glacier water and the ice was amazing. Bring a cooler to take home some ice and definitely bring a water bottle. Entire experience is about 3 hrs incl the skywalk."
"Please, please buy your tickets in advance. Although the ice field itself was pretty neat, standing in line and waiting around in the overly crowded main building was a nightmare. If you don't like crowds, this isn't for you."
We walked to the bottom of the glacier. Quite impressing. Watch your step and do not exit the paths. Is is beautiful. We thought the sky walk and the bus tours were too expensive so we approached the glacier on foot following the marked path.
"This is a must for any visitor to the area. We first thought it was close to Banff, although it is closer to the Lake Louise area, luckily we were allowed to change our reservation. It was a great experience to walk on a glacier and the reception building has the largest amount of female toilets, which I am sure will be a welcome sight for any tourbus passenger. The Centre is informative and the Skywalk well worth it to and what an experience. A little expensive, but if you there, make it part of your adventure. Rather skip one of the many Gondolas in the Rockies."
"We stopped off on our way to Lake Louise. We walked in and booked, not long to wait. It all seemed very professional and well organised. The drivers up to the glacier were entertaining. Didn't get long up there, about 15 minutes and the bus will leave without you if you are not back, so be prepared for your snaps."
"This drive is a must do. Mountains, glaciers, waterfalls and rivers are always in view. There are plenty of opportunities to pull over and take photos. We saw a bear, a caribou, and a mountain goat on our drive!"
The line ups and prices deterred me from participating in any of the activities but just stopping and looking at the Icefields from different vantage points was epic.
"On our way to Jasper National Park, we decided to experience the famous Sky Walk so well advertised everywhere. We got the tickets and had to wait for our bus for over ten minutes. An office worker counted people in our line three times, so I was sure she did it so that each person had a seat. Surprise! At least seven people had to stand (for the same ticket price.) When we arrived, the bus driver for some reason refused to open the middle doors, and we had to wait in the hot noisy bus till everybody gets off the bus through the narrow front door. The same happened upon our arrival back. The mood was spoiled, and the gorgeous view of the glacier didn't look that gorgeous anymore."
"We took a tour and found it a completely fascinating experience. The vehicle itself was truly impressive, with huge treads to climb up the steep path. We had an excellent and entertaining guide. After arriving, we had a brief period to walk around. It would have been nice to spend longer there, but there are tons of tourists around and lots of demand for tours. My husband drank the glacier water but I was not quite that brave. Bring a bottle if you would like to bring some glacier water home with you. The icefields are gorgeous, and it’s a real shame that they are shrinking year after year.Be warned that you will be walking on ice, so wear suitable footwear!"
"Okay, so it's a cliche, tourist thing to do, it probably seems expensive and you have to book your slot so you might end up waiting around for your turn. But think of this, if you don't live in New Zealand how often are you going to get the chance to walk on an honest to goodness glacier. Our guide was entertaining with his spiel on the way to and from the glacier, and when we got on the ice he was great at making sure everyone was okay.Definitely one to remember."
"the place itself is very cool and excellentbut the tour arrangement by Brewster is horriblethey let you out in the glacier for only 15 minutes, we were at the back of the bus?by the time we were let out, we have only 9 minutes on the ice"
"This is a heavily visited natural site, and very unlike other Alberta attractions. The glacier is a small part of the Field, and Park Rangers can offer more important information than all the publicity for the bus visits and the Skywalk."
"I was really excited about stopping at Athabasca Glacier and the Columbia Ice Field.....my husband, not so much but even he was won over in the end. You can park across the street from the Columbia Ice Field center and access a path that will take you to the edge of the glacier. The path is not very long but it is uphill all the way so it is not handicapped-accessible or for anyone who's out of shape. You can not walk on the glacier due to the danger of falling into a crevasse but there is no charge and the overwhelming beauty and starkness of seeing the glacier up close is well worth the effort. As you walk up to the glacier, various points are marked that show you where the glacier used to be and how much it's receded over the last century. Remarkable to see how much has been lost but glorious to see a piece of nature still so awe-inspiring. That being said, the ice field center is an absolutely madhouse. The tangle of cars in the parking lot, the sheer number of visitors tripping over each other as they register and sign up for the tours in the glacier vehicles would be enough to send many people over the edge, no pun intended. (I only know because I entered to find washrooms. I was successful but later discovered that facilities are also available at the bottom of the path.) There is a large gift shop in the center but you would need a crowbar to pry apart the crowd of tourists. My strong suggestion is to stay outside, avoid the long lines, high fees and use your own two feet to see this phenomenal force of nature."
Really disappointing - heartbreaking really - to see the Columbia ice fields now as compared to when I first saw them 30 years ago. The receding is stark. The entire area is now crawling with tourists ... not my gig either.
"The opportunity to visit and walk on the glacier it an extraordinary experience. Last glacier visit was in 1987 - I was horrified at how much the ice sheet has receded since then. The tours were pleasant but kind of predictable. The real reason to visit is to put yourself on the ice and drink in the vista around you. And to be able to say ""I was there"" later."
walking on a glacier - well it's was a first for us and felt pretty crazy. We had a clear day which you need to enjoy all the views. Large new centre with food etc and the most unusual snow buses to transport you to the glacier. Guide was excellent and the experience was well worth the money. Wasn't as cold as expected but my trainers got absolutely soaked in the melting ice. Really couldn't be we were on a glacier which sadly is diminishing daily. Just go !
"The glacier is a must see .... However there are a few things to be mindful of before getting there (so as to not have too high expectations and be disappointed).We were part of an organised tour so our tickets were pre-purchased - the best way to do it ... As the queues to purchase tickets were unspeakably long and chaotic.Take a packed lunch unless you're prepared to eat expensive overlooked takeaway/Chinese or plastic like (over processed) sandwiches and rolls - ordering get lunch was like being on the set of a doomsday movie ... Hundreds of tourists rushing and pushing for food like they've never eaten before.The glacier experience is amazing .... Travelling in a ice-truck with huge transmissions and the power of a 4x4 x goodness knows how many times over .... The guide/s is/are informative and friendly and only too happy to answer questions and assist to make the experience one to remember.Only detracting remark to make is that you don't get to spend long enough on the glacier ... It's quite a rushed experience and one that people should savour .... To think about the magnitude of the natural wonder, how much it's receeded and what it used to be .... Absolutley phenomenal! The time isn't long enough but the memories are forever ....PS wear enclosed shoes, be weary of thin ice (you loose half a leg in some pot holes and go home with a wet leg ha ha), and be sure to taste/drink some of the fresh glacial water!"
"This was a ""must see!"" The opportunity to walk on a glacier is amazing! I enjoyed the walk above the glacier too. The crowds are pretty significant, so purchase tickets online to avoid one of the lines."
"It was an amazing drive to the icefields, lots to do when you get there, we had lunch at the Icefield centre, then hiked to the top of the trail to get the best look to the Icefield"
"Very crowded facility, good views of the ice fields. I was not to impressed with the tours, but then we are from the NW and snow and ice is not a unfamiliar site."
"Had visited the Icefields about 30 years ago and was amazed at that time. While the glacier has receded quite a bit over this amount of time, it still is amazing to see. Be sure to take the ride that allows you to actually get out on the glacier. The Canadian Rockies are marvelous and this is just a small part of the places you can visit. A MUST SEE!"
Book your tickets online so you don't have to queue up at the center which is chaotic.Also if you buy the tickets at the center you might have to wait a long time for your ride to the Glacier. Also carry your own food and do not eat at the center. Its lousy and expensive. The whole experience is about 90 minutes of which about 20 minutes is on the Glacier. Don't bother carrying heavy woolen since the temperature is only slightly more than the feel at the reception center. Just dont wear shorts and open toes. It could be a thrilling experience if you have not been to a glacier before. On the glacier be responsible and don't cause any damage. Its already in a poor state.
Again a long wait to get on this trip. The information provision by the guide was great. He was fun and informative. Once on the glacier it was okay but not wow. I'm not sure if this is because I have done glaciers before in Chile and Norway so knew what to expect. I preferred the skywalk trip afterwards. But again it's all about personal taste. Still I would recommend this trip as part of the Ice Fields experience.
"The queue to get tickets was very long but it was worth the wait. What an experience, both the ride on the glacier and being able to walk on it. Our driver was very knowledgeable and a good laugh. This is a definite must do."
"Wow, walking on an ice field! The tour was very well planned and timing was excellent for us. It snowed that day, but when it was our turn to go to the ice field, the snow cleared. The view was beautiful view and it was safer walking on the ice. Absolutely a must to do!"
"Wonderfull to see and walk on a glacier (my first time). Very popular and busy but very worth visiting. We experienced rain, snow and sunshine on the one visit! Not to be missed."
"The idea of being transported in huge, unique vehicles up onto a glacier is a great idea. However, as it is actually done leaves much to be desired. This operation is huge. When we got to the building that is the staging area, it was overly crowded and almost shoulder-to-shoulder. The operation involves buses which take you to the embarkment point where you board your special vehicle that takes you up on your 20 minute ride up onto the Althabascan Glacier. You only have about 20 minutes on the glacier until you have to re-board your vehicle and then the bus to return to the starting point. For me, being on a glacier with a ton of other people for only 20 minutes was not a nature trip but more like a Disneyland ride. I really wouldn't recommend this trip especially because of the expense and the crowds. Enjoy the Ice Fields from highway 93 and the pull outs. The highway is beautiful and the views of the Canadian Rockies from the highway and pull outs can't be beat."
"The walk up to the ice field was challenging. I suspect it would be impossible for many, however if you are able to it is well worth it. The ice field itself is amazing, and the opportunity to see it before it disappears for good can't be missed."
"Long drive, but beautiful! The glaciers and lakes were worth seeing. Not much for animals. Highway was nice and well paved."
"You must absolutely take this highway of you are in Alberta. Best views on the glaciers, lakes, rivers and waterfalls. We took thd highway both ways, but the best views are in the direction from Jasper to Banff. Don't forget to stop at locations indicated as viewing points. Stick stricly to speed limits, in particular the 60km/h. Police/sheriff are very active."
"Been to Jasper many times as a child but never got to see the Icefields. I'm glad I finally saw it. It is sad to think it won't exist one day. The weather was perfect. The drive up on the Ice Explorer was awesome.Our guide Patrick was extremely knowledgeable. He was funny, with some interesting stories about the animals in the area etc.He made the drive up really enjoyable. Everyone on the explorer seemed to be having a great time.Wish we could stay on the glacier longer than 20 minutes but with all the other tours coming onto the ice it is understandable.It really is worth the money to see this natural wonder. A historical part of our country that one day will be gone.A must see for everyone!!! Great staff and guides..."
"With only 100 years left to see before this wonder naturally disappears! This visit is a must see, with recommendation of going on the ice explorer tour which takes you onto the body of the glacier! Only downside is you get 20 minuets to walk on the glacier which goes so fast"
"It is the most unique unusual and gorgeous area I have ever witnessed, and I hope everyone can enjoy it. Beware of the speed traps. Sheriffs. The speed suddenly goes down from 90 to 50 downhill and they were stopping people left and right with a hefty fine. Aside from seeing that, the scenery is off the charts amazing."
"It was both cool and tragic to see the ice fields up close. The cool part is obvious: this is an ice field that has been around since the beginning of time and it is just breathtaking to be able to be lucky enough to see such a sight.The tragic part is seeing how much the ice fields have receded--decreased in size, and even more tragic that it has happened so quickly. It speaks for itself on the effects of global warming. While we were standing taking pictures, there was a constant sound of avalanches...so the ice fields are literally receding as we speak."
Took the glacier adventure after waiting years to do so. Well worth the trip! Drivers for Brewster were very informative and pleasant. Staff at Discovery Centre and Skywalk were fantastic. Glad to see they hire such a diverse group of young people who are very happy to be there.
"After an arduous climb, there is a treacherous descent and then there is rope barring the adventurous from walking on the glacier like in days gone by. For the independent traveler, not with an expensive excision, it is a real disappointment not to have the thrill of being on the glacier. Simply not worth the effort."
"once in life time experience. weather usually 10 degrees less than normal (obviously due to ice) take bottles, athabasca glacier is clean and sweet water. tick of the things to do list ;)"
"There was a crowd so go early. The center has place to get the tickets, drinks and rest rooms. You ride a coach for 5 minutes up to the huge buses that take you onto the ice fields. You get 20 minutes to do photo's, walk around and try glacier water. It is cool and windy. They run the buses constantly. Very little waiting. I highly recommend it. The staff are helpful and entertaining."
I did a tour here about 12 years ago with my wife and child. It was an amazing experience. I was by here this month and could actually see that the glacier has shrunk and receded back. It is a scary thought to wonder where all the ice and meltwater ended up. Spectacular views makes me proud of the leaders in the past to protect such an amazing place and the will to keep it that way. Worth a stop just to see it. If you take the tour you will be impressed by the sheer size of the icefield.
"We did this as part of the Brewster Ultimate Explorer Package (along with the Glacier Skywalk, Banff Gondola, and a cruise on Lake Minnewanka) and it was by far the best part of the package. Park up at the Columbia Ice Field visitor centre and join the group for your visit to the glacier. You access the glacier on an all-terrain Ice Explorer (they are amazing) and then once you are up on the glacier, you can get out and explore a little. The glacier is beautiful and access is restricted to a specific area - for obvious reasons - but you can wander around enough to get away from the crowd to get some lovely photos, and if you have an empty drinking bottle, I highly recommend filling it with the running glacier water. So clean and fresh! Even if you decide not to buy the Ultimate Explorer ticket, I would say that this is a not to be missed location. We loved it."
"This was a bucket list item! We took the bus out to the Athabaska Glacier and WALKED ON THE GLACIER!
It was a beautifully sunny day and it was still chilly!, which we welcomed!"
Walking on a glacier is a bit of a thrill. The trip there in these very unique busses designed to have a minimal impact on the ice is a great part of the experience. You get about 20 minutes to walk around on the fairly slippery ice of the Glacier. It's relatively expensive for what it is but something you do to put a tick on your bucket list.
Called here on our was from Banff to Jasper. Were expecting huge queues but at 11am there was no queue and we were on the next bus.NB by 1pm the place was heaving and the queues long so suspect there was quite a wait time. A really great experience that I'm not sure you could have in many other places in the world.
I saw the Columbia Ice Field and the Athabaskan Glacier in 1972. A photograph I took then shows the extent of the glacier down the valley floor. Since then the glacier has retreated considerably up the valley. It's clear that the glaciers are retreating (for whatever reason) and experiencing these majestic structures is a profound experience for anyone who loves exploring our world. Taking the tour on the glacier is worth it. One tip is to stay at the Glacial View Inn and take the first tour in the morning. It's less crowded.
"A bus ride to the ice field is really cool and you are transferred from the visitors center on to the special vehicle which will take you over to the ice field. You are given about 20 minutes in a limited space to walk over the ice, take pictures and them return in the same bus. The entire journey take about just over an hour. It is sad to see that the top of the ice sheets are barely white due to pollution but the driver who was also giving the commentary was really good and well informed maintained that compared to the other effects of global warming the running of the buses over the glacier did not create any great harm. You may need a very light jacket in summer if you are susceptible to the cold."
"Since you are driving in the valley and the mountains and glaciers are above you to the left and right, you really get to see their beauty. It's very impressive."
"I had always wanted to walk on a glacier, and this experience did not dissapoint! The Brewster company was very well organized and had plenty of ice field vehicles running as well as busses. We didn't have to wait at all, and the experience was awesome! Yes, it is a little on the pricy side but well worth the money!"
"An amazing place from the time you arrive to getting on one of their incredible transporters. This has to be a must for anybody in the area and it's only open for 6 months of the year. It is so well organised with very knowledgeable staff a must, great value"
"Sadly the ice field is no longer visible from the highway. Plenty of park so you just have to walk over the mound to see the ice field. We were surprised and saddened by the size of the ice field, lots has melted in a very short period of time."
"Best advice: go early if possible and avoid the crowds. If you book your ticket via Brewsters then your tour coach drives directly to a transfer station, where you then board the specialist glacier explorer vehicle.If you arrive via another Operator then you are transfered by shuttle bus to the transfer station.You travel on the Explorer vehicle for about 12 minutes over the terminal and lateral moraines before driving on to a groomed portion of the ice where you depart the vehicle and spend 13 minutes on the ice.Superb photos, blues in the ice show clearly. An experience that only make me want to visit more glaciers."
"Taking a bus tour that drives on the glacier seems kind of stupid to me. I'm also afraid of heights, so the skywalk was a nogo for me. Views of the glaciers from the Icefields Parkway are best approaching from the NW."
"It was amazing to see the Glaciers for the first time. Columbia Ice field was a great introduction to the over 100 glaciers between Banff and Jasper. I continued to gasp at every turn at the beauty they create in the Canadian Rockies. Be sure to invest in the 3-4 hour drive. You won't be disappointed,"
"Driving from Banff to Jasper,we stopped here for both tours,The Skywalk and the Icefield tour. Car parks are huge and very busy,also lots of queues inside too. It pays to pre book otherwise you will join those queues!. Were bused to the Skywalk and it is impressive,walking over the canyon with only glass supprting you. The icefield was ok but if you have done other glacier tours then you may be dissapointed,drive there.spend 20 mins walking around in circles and drive back,good photos though."
Here's your chance to walk on a real glacier- over 200 meters thick!! You go up in a monster ice truck that holds about 40 people. The ride itself is quite an adventure the driver is your tour guide and quite knowledgeable. You get about 20 minutes actually to walk around on the ice field/glacier. Great shots of surrounding glaciers that tower above you as well. A don't miss attraction for sure.
Good view of the glaciers from the Icefield centreTrip to go on the glacier and the nearby sky walk are extortionate Again rammed with visitors- as its on the bus tour route called in twice on both occasions very full and intimidating amount of crowds couldn't get to the cafe too many peopleGo out of season or unless you are desperate give it a miss
This is a must for anyone in the area. My husband and I did the glacier tour and skywalk. Kiwi Dan was our driver to the glacier and was very knowledgeable and funny. Kevin was our driver to and from the hotel and was such a nice guy. We enjoyed learning about the area and the staff just made everything that much better!
"This is a massive operation and if you are going during the busy season, book ahead. We were torn as we usually don't like doing organized touristy things in a national park. That said, there really aren't a lot of ways to get this far onto a glacier and in this way. The kids loved it and loved the bus ride. Bring a water jug with you - the water is drinkable. Also, dress in layers as it can be really cold and windy up there and 30 degrees (90 degrees Fahrenheit) at the bottom. There are ways to hike to glaciers - it wasn't our first choice for longer hikes though. In the end, we were glad we did it."
"This is a must do when in the Rockies.It is quite expensive but something you will probably never get another chance at.The drivers were great & the views outstanding.With hindsight, if wanting food, probably best to take a snack with you as it is very expensive & not very appealing."
"Getting to walk on a glacier and drink the water from it, awesome experience. We took regular water bottles and our bottles with filters and filled them up. Drank the water in regular bottles right on the glacier. We did not get sick. The water was cold, pure and delicious. Probably the best tasting water I have had. Bought our tickets ahead of time and saved having to stand in line. We also took the 10am tour. We were the only snowbus on the glacier. So maybe 20 people? Excellent experience. Do wear warmer layers, it is chilly on the glacier. Bonus points for being able to see Snow Dome up close. Where one snow flake can have three different destinies depending where which side it lands on the mountain. Reputation is that it is the only spot on Earth that drains specifically into three oceans. Yes, there is the one in Montana but doesn't drain directly, if memory serves correctly. Tour guide was very informative and funny. Happy that we just didn't park at the toe and walk around at the bottom but did the actual tour. Where else can you ride around in a million dollar bus with huge tires. The children on the tour really seemed to enjoy it as much as the adults. There is a trail up past the visitor center by the car park. It has a plaque that has where the end of the glacier was in the 1800s. Amazing how much it has receded in a relatively short amount of time. Do not miss this sight. Worth the drive, money etc."
"You can only walk on the ice field if you ride in the Brewster vehicles. Otherwise, at the Toe of the Glacier trail you can only get close and then see lots of warnings about not going on the glacier because people have died. So, it is a great view and I'd do it again, but don't do so with the impression that you will be able to walk on the glacier."
"The drive alone leaves a person breathless! We were visiting from Ontario and loved every minute! the mountains are so majestic, a trip that is so worthwhile! :)"
"A must visit when in the Rockies. One gets right on to the glacier visa the Brewster specially designed bus. We did this as part of a Brewster package saving $30 CAD per person that also included an hour boat trip om Lake Minniewanka, the new Skywalk and the Banff gondola. The package costs about $169 p.p. so not cheap but on a par with Canada's tourist prices."
"This is an absolute must do. Well run, drivers were entertaining and informative on the way to the fields. Just a tip, try to purchase tickets on line as the wait at the ticket counter can be lengthy. Perhaps more staff should be in attendance, otherwise a fantastic way to spend a couple of hours."
"You dont need to park at the Icefield center, but you can go directly to the toe of the glacier and the walk if you want. Even in summer it can be a bit cold."
The views of the Icefields are amazing from the highway. Lots of safe spots to pull off and take pictures.
"Originally I thought just going on the glacier would be something you had to do but it was spectacular, just realised how small we are in such a field of ice."
"Athabasca glacier is one of the many glaciers you see driving on Icefileds Parkway. You can venture on it on your own. You can also take a tour on a special snowcoach to get up on the glacier. The snowbus looks realy interesting and the ride to the glacier is interesting in itself, but when you step down on the glacier, and you find yourself surrounded by hundreds years old ice, that's a unique experience. Taking the tour gives you he advantage of learning from the guides interesting facts about the area. I've learned, for example, that one of the two little lakes at the foot of the glacier, Ripple lake, it never freezes even when the temperatures outside are -50. Tip - if you collect airmiles you can redeem them for passes for the tour."
"I was quite excited to see this listed on our tour, but the view from a far was probably better than when we were on the glacier itself. It was a bit surreal and as it was rather warm on the glacier it just didn't match up with what I was expecting mentally. The snow bus ride gave the experience a bit of drama and thrill. The skywalk seems to me to be built in the wrong place. It looks down at a gorge that wasn't particularly inspiring. I'm glad in both cases the queues were short/non existent to get in as if I'd waited ages I'd have been a bit annoyed."
The ice field is definitely worth a visit. How often can you take a hair-raising ride to a glacier and then walk across it? Lots of fun!
Very interesting and we were able to go on to the glacia via special snow bus. Apparently these vehicles cost 1.3 million dollars each and each tyre 500 dollars. Nothing to dislike except we were told the glacier is reducing in size year by year.
"300 ft of ice beneath you, 30 ish C Aound you, travel onto the glacier on the specialised ice bus for a fantastic experience, if you're lucky, & get a clear day the views are breathtaking"
"We have never seen anything like this and I doubt we will again .Words can not fully convey the sites we saw .Unforgetable,so fortunate to have been given the opportunity to witness such landscape ."
"A very well organised operation with Brewster 'buses' with their huge wheels leaving at regular intervals from 'base camp', the Icefield Centre. The ride to the glacier is quite an experience in itself with some of the gradient giving momentary concern which is speedily allayed by the knowledgeable driver! Sensible shoes are a must when stepping out on to the ice for a 15-20 minute stop. We could take a drink from the melting ice which was quite breathtakingly blue and marvel at the grandeur all around."
"Family and I visited today. The organisation in the Welcome Center was extremely poor, and the staff seemed to be scrambling to keep order. This was even after 3pm, when their broached States is the best time to 'beat the crowds'. Even in the cafe nothing really flowed well. This aside, the glacier visits itself is impressive. The sheer size and scale is awe inspiring, and really helps one appreciate the power of nature, and the fragility of it.We also did the sky walk, which was a bit unnerving :) not sure it's worth the price, but is still worth the visit if you've comel the way to re idea fields."
"I thought it was awesome. I hadn't been there in 40 years. It was worth detouring down there for the day :) We drove in and walked up....it was great. Hang on to your kids though, and obey all signage."
The Columbia Ice Field sits atop the Canadian Rockies so when you're driving along the Icefield Parkway and looking at the ice on top of the mountains that's the icefield. It's basically a huge collection of glaciers and you can see those glaciers like the Crowfoot or Athabasca while in the national parks that go along the road.
"Beautiful, but overrun with bus loads of tourists lining up to pay for an ice-crawler ride over what's left of the glacier. Glacier Skywalk looks beautiful in the ads, but under impressive as you drive by on Icefields Parkway. No interpretive info at the Discovery Center, movie theater was being renovated. A real disappointment."
Wow. Travelling from lake Louise to jasper is an amazing journey as it is. The scenery is stunning every kilometre. Then the icing on the cake is the Columbia ice field. There is an ice field centre located along the highway from where you can view the ice fields and book trips to drive onto one of the glaciers on a specially adapted bus or go to the skywalk which is a walkway further along the road (they provide shuttle ) and this has a glass part which allows you to stand hundreds of feet above the valley with views straight down. Even just viewing the fields from the road is amazing.
"This is a fairly new activity only opened in 2014! You walk out on a glass walkway 600 feet over the canyon floor! You may find it a little nerve-wracking, taking the first step, but fun to do. Lots of good info about glaciation. Entrance on a special bus, only available from the Columbia Icefields Centre.Great views, though only as good as seen from the road next to it. It's as much about the thrill, really."
I did the short hike up the hill from the parking lot to have a better view of the glacier. Walking up gives you a better perspective of exactly how far the glacier has receded. A “fresh” piece of the glacier had fallen off exposing some blue snow which was interesting as well as the creek that flows from the glacier.
Walked on the Athabasca Glacier and drank the ice-water - wonderful experience. Also visited the Glacier Skywalk - 900 feet high looking down through a glass floor! Awesome!
"The Columbia Ice Field is amazing and the drive on the special buses is entertaining. Standing on the ice and looking at the edge of the glacier, never gets old. Even though there were many people up on the glacier at the same time, it didn't feel crowded.This was my 4th trip to Ice Field, and even though it has receded it is still awe inspiring."
"This is a must see if you are visiting the Canadian Rockies. The snow coaches (not sure if this is what they are called) are interesting vehicles that go up and down the glacier without losing traction. Our driver was very knowledgeable. We purchased our tickets as part of a package at the Banff gondola. Package also included the Sky Walk. Even with the advanced purchase of tickets, we had to wait for one and a half hours before a vehicle was available. This is definitely the downside. Food is available for purchase while you wait. But it is nothing special. However, the wait was worth it for the opportunity to walk on a glacier in the middle of summer! Fun experience!"
We were there on a Sat and there was a long wait. Way to crowded. Other options to get close to a glacier were much better - such at Mt. Edith Cavell.
Decided not to take the bus to walk on Glacier as I had done that in the past and wanted to save the money. Hiked up to Glacier and really enjoyed seeing it without spending money. Got some great pictures of edge and stream coming from melt and moraines. Well worth the uphill hike to the vantage point!
"We took the tour of the sky walk overlooking the canyon at the Ice Fields in Jasper National Park with our 3 grandkids aged 5, 8 & 11. The middle one resisted going because she thought it would be boring but seemed to enjoy it pretty much. The plexi-glass floor and railing takes some getting used to, but the most nerve racking part of the experience was actually the steel gtaing walkway coming off the sky walk. That and the group of tourists that couldn't resist jumping on the floor in the middle of the skywalk. They did apologize, so we didn't throw them over the side.I recommend you try your best to get to the bus departure area and buy your tickets (CAA discount, by the way) as early as possible as later in the day the skywalk can get so crowded you can barely move of see the floor. Tickets are also cheaper before 11 AM. I did it once for the grandkids experience and I won't do it again because I fundimentally disagree with replacing a public parking and viewing area with a for-profit private enterprise geared toward private bus access in a National Park."
"Liked the views to, from, and at the place. Did the skywalk, price was good value I thought. Didn't do the glacier walk. Sort of wish I did. Found out later that there were other companies that did it, not just Brewster, which didn't seem to be in info brochures"
"The sheer enormity of the Colombia Ice field is impossible to describe - it just has to be experienced.
Photographs can not do justice or convey the vastness of this place - it is well worth a visit."
Riding in a specially built bus onto the Glacier is an experience in itself.Once you exit the bus you feel as though you are on another planet. I would recommend wearing foot wear that can handle the wet ice. We were lucky to get Laura as our driver & guide. She had the greatest laugh and made the trip worth while.
This is an absolute must when visiting this area. Very different perspective being on the glacier verses viewing from the base ticket area. Just not a lot of time on the glacier....limited to 15 to 20 minutes and it can get crowded. Recommend for as early in the day as possible to beat the crowds.
We had so much fun waling around on the ice fields and seeing the glacier. drinking the water from a million year old glacier was such a highlight. The people who run the tour are so sweet and helped by taking photos of us. It was certainly worth stopping!
"Memorable experience of actually walking out onto the glacier....chance to get up close and view the ""blue"" color of the glacier....rivulets of the blue water edge the wall of ice...surreal colors"
"Get to the Icefields before it disappears over the top. It is amazing. There are markers showing the melt of the glacier, by years. Presently it is a big hike from the parking lot across the road to the ice. Of course the visitors centre is a tourist crap store."
This is fascinating to see and understand how the glaciers are retreating. It is commercial though and be prepared for japanese tourists who take pictures everywhere.
The icefields are amazing and fascinating. Connor did an awesome job with some frustrating guest and made the freaky bus ride fun and entertaining. My Mom loved seeing mountain goats just hanging out on the way up. Clearly not planned but she loved it none the less.Would go again for sure. Make sure to get a pic with your jacket off. We did a few in tank tops as it's just so bizarre looking :)
I went here as a kid and was shocked at how much the glacier has receded since then (1994). There is now a river/pond at the foot of the Glacier so you can't really hike up past the foot of it without a guide. The bus tours are still available but it was pouring rain so we decided not to do it this time. Definitely worth a visit though!
For more money than I care to remember we visited the monopolistic Brewster run Colombia Ice Fields. Brewster runs a taught ship and expects you to pay for it. After eating a tres expensive meal we arrived at our bus at an appointed time. This allowed us to be transported to the ice field where one of 23 million plus vehicles transported us to the part of the ice field they certified as safe. Which means they plowed it and packed it down or roped off the crevices. They let you walk around the ice field for about twenty minutes and bus you back to home base. The main attractions are sipping melting ice water and looking at the pretty scenery.And Brewster employs many people.
Thoroughly enjoyed the experience although my travelling companion had visited 30 years ago & was appalled at how it has deteriorated & decreased. While appreciating that people want to experience this beautiful sight can't help thinking that it maybe time to stop so much activity on it & try to preserve what's left!
This is about 100 k's from Jasper and well worth the trip. Had a 3/4 hr wait after buying our tickets which wasn't too bad. You catch 1 bus over to just below the Ice fields then you are transfered to an other bus to travel up and onto the ice Field. We were given about 3/4 hr on the ice which was a good time.
"The ice field is massive, and it was fabulous to actually walk on it, and learn about it. For most people that's enough but we then walked the Parker trail and that just topped off what we thought about glaciers."
The ice fields were interesting. The trip to the ice field is very short. We were on it for less than 20 minutes. It was cool and windy and crowded. Took some great photos. Remember to bring your AAA card if you have one for a big discount. Without it I am not sure I would recommend it.
A visit to Alberta would not be complete without visiting the Columbia and Peyto Icefields. These amazing forces of nature shaped all the landmarks we know and these are amoung the greatest left to visit.You can walk to the Icefields for free or take a bus for which there is a charge.
Enjoyed drive up in 6 wheel Terra and guide info. Walked on Glacier beautiful day sunny we had on layers did not need. Overwhelming spectacular. Drank clear cool Glacier fresh water no after effects. Easier access than when I took a helicopter out and landed on Alaska glacier. Columbia just as beautiful and way less expensive. Recommend go online to book time during Tourist season. Back now in Hot Texas thinking Cool.
"We walked on a glacier in Alberta, Canada. The 6 wheel drive vehicle driven by an Australian lass was as much a treat as the walk and visual of the cut away prepared for the tourists. Learning about the original size of the ice and its probably demise in 70 or so years was truly sad. Our day at the glacier was fun and informative!"
We left Jasper early and arrived shortly after 0900 – there was hardly anyone around and we got on a 0930 coach out to the glacier – there were only 7 of us! When we got to the glacier we were the only tundra buggy out there for the entire 20 or so minutes! We had the place to ourselves – wonderful. On the way to the glacier it was tipping it down with rain but just as we got our tickets the sun came out and it was glorious (although still cold on the glacier) - the view and the experience was amazing. We took an empty water bottle (as recommended on TA) and filled it with pure glacier water which we were advised is perfectly safe to drink – you can’t get any purer than getting water from the glacier yourself! By the time we got back the visitors centre was packed. Enjoyed a very nice (but very expensive) hot chocolate - it was the most expensive hot chocolate we had on our trip of the Rockies. I had visited 15 years ago – so sad to think that it has retreated about 150 meters during that time – so if you get the opportunity – see it now!
"Driving along the icefield highway is an experience beyond anything we expected. Every turn of the head, or bend in the road, revealed the most amazing scenery created by thousands of years of ice. The soaring snow topped mountains and glaciers beside sheer slopes of rock were breathtaking. The temptation was to keep the camera ready, but nothing could capture the sheer beauty of the scenery or its vast size. It was a fantastic highway through one of the great wonders of Canada."
"If you are happy to forego the opportunity to stand on ice with lota of others, then you can drive to the lower car park and walk up quite close to the glacier and save yourself enough for a nice dinner out instead."
Fun and facts as you ride the road onto the Glacier. The steep descent and ascent onto and off the glacier make it fun for the kid in you too.
"Beautiful scenery, was like driving into a postcard. Highly recommend this. Nice visitor center there too with everything you could possibly need."
We paid for this attraction on the internet and when we arrived we felt it could've been much cheaper. Yes we rode in their big and probably pricy vehicles and we walked on the glacier for about 20 minutes. If you take a drink bottle you can fill it at the glacier from the fresh flowing water there. We are pleased we did the experience but just disappointed for the cost.
"the hike to the toe of the glacier is actually rewarding in a sense, you can see the markers of where the glacier was years ago, but taking the bus onto the glacier itself wasn't that much more impressive. Its basically the same thing except you're standing on the ice. I honestly liked riding the awesome bus that takes you down to the glacier than the glacier itself."
"Even the ride in the Ice Explorer up to the Athabasca Glacier was a great experience, but being able to walk around on it, make snowballs, fill water bottles with glacier water, and even make a little snowman there, was awesome. We were blessed with perfect weather, so the views of it from below and the views from up there were gorgeous."
"Columbia icefield ... a glacier for millions of years and covering about 250 square KMs ( as informed by our guide), is just awesome. Just can not believe that suddenly the entire icefield have come to an end and you can see the hard rocks all around..if you are good at your imagination, just think of, before the ""global warming"" started, how beautiful the glacier and icefield was and how difficult it was to travel to the ice-field. The explorers were too good to be engineered and gives you enough comfort of safety, even on one of the steepest slopes, you have ever dare to travel. Wish that I could see this magnificent glacier, in it's original beauty, few thousands of years back !!"
"The glacier is amazing. My boys enjoyed the steep (over 30%) slope all-terrain bus ride more. We spent 20 minutes on the glacier. It was fun. We also visited Glacier Skywalk. There are transit bus to take you there from Icefield Center. On the skywalk facility, they provide free audio tour and educational booths. They surely kept my boys entertained while I enjoyed the great view of the glacier and fun glass skywalk."
"I've traveled all over the world and have to admit the experience of walking on a glacier ranks right up there at the top with any past experience. Of course, you can view the glacier from numerous sites and it is still spectacular even though it has shrunk immensely over the last 50 years. Even the bus ride to the glacier in a $1.2 million bus built especially for this occasion is unique. Rather expensive for a 15 minute bus ride and 15 minutes on the glacier, but well worth it."
"We were travelling from Banff to Jasper and knew of the Icefield, but didn't appreciate how big it was. We stopped off and did the Icefield tour and the Gacier Skywalk, both wee really stunning and definitely worth the visit."
We only saw the Columbia Ice Field from a great distance while driving the Icefield Parkway in Jasper National Park but it was still most impressive. If we had more time we would have liked to have gotten closer.
"We hiked up to the yellow tape. It's was a nice hike, and breathtaking in beauty AND effort! There are tours to take you on the ice."
"Columbia Ice field, it is just such an amazing view. I went there with my parents. It was there first time in the rockies. There is a nice campground just across from the Icefield, if you are looking for something a bit more rustic then a hotel room, it is an amazing option. Nice and quiet at night!"
We were on a road trip through the Rockies and on our leg from Lake Louise to Jasper we stopped to look at the Columbia Ice Field. We drove up to the car park and walked the few hundred yards to the toe of the glacie. Nice to see but if you have seen glaciers in Norway this one was not very impressive. We didn't waste money on the walkway or the bus I'm pleased to say as those were a rip off.
"You can either take the large wheeled buses up on to the ice field or hike up to near the bottom of the ice field, but it is quite a hike up, though its worth the walk."
Wonderful experience to be on the glacier. Definitely should experience the glacier water and amazing view.
"To get to the ice field was a bit cumbersome, but I went with Brewster Travel and they were very well organized. I learned a lot on the drive to the glacier. Stepping onto and exploring the glacier was a very neat experience. Just be mindful to wear some warm clothes and waterproof shoes, just in case you find a nice cold puddle to step into."
"The whole experience was awe inspiring from the Bus trip up to the snow vehicle, traversing the 17% climbs and drops, to walking on the Glacier and just the sheer size of the whole glacier area.Mountain goats up in the heights so far away that they looked tiny. We did pick perfect waether y for it."
The view of two glaciers from the Centre balcony was worth the trip and the battle of parking. Sadly the Centre was packed with long queues for everything. The quick queue for snacks only worked well and the snacks were fine.
"Not the place, but the fact that the Icefield has retreated so far in such a short space of time. The views, like everywhere in the Rockies, is stunning but it makes you wonder about the global warming situation when you actually see the retreat of this glacier. Take in this view before its too late"
"This was great fun. You get a coach part way, then transfer to a monster bus that takes you onto the glacier. On the day we visited it was warm and we only needed a jumper up on the ice. The surface wasn't too slippy to walk around on. Although the round trip is over an hour you only get 15 minutes on the ice itself. We bought a joint ticket for the glacier, the skywalk and Sulphur Mountain in Banff which gave a small saving."
This is a must do item for your excursion route. 21 of the 23 Ice Explorers in the world operate from this one site. The guide is very knowledgeable and friendly and walking out on a glacier is an experience not to be missed.
This is a must do on your way to or from Jasper. While expensive the tour is a once in a lifetime opportunity to walk on a glacier. The tour guide was very knowledgeable and friendly.
"Amazing View and make sure you dress right. Great way of getting up and down with the vehicle that they have. Amazed by the icefiled, glacier"
"We purchase a promo coupon package well in advance (limited time only when we purchased it)) that included the Columbia Ice Field and Jasper Skywalk. There was a bit of confusion with the coupon at the counter. The young lady at the counter was great, real friendly/nice/helpful but management must do better to inform their front line staff of promo coupons. Our bus driver was very informative and pointed out interesting points/scenery as the bus made its way up to the glacier, We had about 20 minutes to take photos, walk, explore, make some snowballs, etc. on the glacier. Light jacket in the spring/summer is adequate. Flip flops on the glacier snow and ice is not recommended."
"What an experience to have been privileged to do and a must if you are visiting Canada. It is an amazing place with stunning scenery, it started to snow whilst we were on the glacier which made it all the more enjoyable. Just the vastness of it is unbelievable."
"Columbia Ice Field is a great place to see how glaciation carves the earth, as well as the wonders of the moving ice."
Great experience if you've never been on a Glacier. Snowcoaches take you on a short and slow trip to the icefields. You get to spend 15 minutes on the glacier and then it's back on the snowcoach. Dress warmly...it's cold in June-remember you're standing on ice!!
"FOr those from warmer places, this pai-less way to travel and stand on a real glacier is something to remember. The bus trip, at $55+ is a bit pricey, though!"
We stopped that coming back from Jasper. It is possible to walk on top of the ice and if you like hiking you can go to the place places where the big busses with tourists goes. The bus is really expensive and you can save money walking
"this trip takes half a day easily,the bus ride to icefield is really somethhing...a must do!!the staff was helpful"
We stayed across the street from the glacier and got tickets at the bottom of the hotel. Got tickets in the morning of the tour. The tour takes about an one and a half. They load you on buses to go across the street to get on one of the glacier vehicles. Very fun and the glacier is shrinking so it was nice to experience it.
Stopped in for a quick look - did not do the whole walk as we were tired from a long day of hiking. It is just along the road you can't miss it. And there is a place to buy food and little trinkets on the opposite side of the road. Amazing what there is in nature for free to look at and admire. Enjoy the views! xx
"Stunning! I was last here over 20 years ago and it was quite shocking to see how far the glacier has retreated in that time. Good information boards on the walk to the glacier, a must see before it disappears!!"
Don't miss this one! The drive is BEAUTIFUL. Stop at the visitor center and enjoy the view or sign up for one of their tours. The glaciers are all around you. You can park right across from the Athabasca Glacier and spend the night in your RV for $10. This was one of the highlights of our trip.
Moderate uphill walk from the parking lot. I you want to stand on the ice you have to take the bus because there is a run off stream running left to right in front of the glacier making it impossible to reach by foot.
We did both the Glacier Walk and the Sky Walk. You can do each one on their own or take advantage of discount if you book both tours together. We loved the Glacier Walk. A specialized vehicle takes you right out onto the glacier where you get to walk around for 20 minutes. on your drive to/back from the glacier you are given a informative history/facts about it and the area surrounding it. Bring an empty water bottle you can capture the melting water off the glacier and drink it. I was a bit disappointed in the the Sky Walk. Although the view is breathtaking I think if you only have time to do one do the Glacier Walk.
"When the sun is shining this is a must do!. Crystal clear blue sky and brilliant white glaciers. Although it can be quite breezy and cool in the car park the weather can bed inverted effect on the glacier as we experienced and be quite hot. Note, it can be very busy so get there early or best still book on-line to avoid the queues."
"Really enjoyed our visit to the Ice field. Don't forget to fill up an empty water bottle whilst there, we were told it takes 10 years of you its that pure, don't think it worked for me but the icy water sure did taste good. very informative guides on the bus."
Visited with two four year olds. Young children were free if they say on our laps. Very little walking involved. No washrooms on the glacier (of course) so go before. Bus drivers were humorous and informative. Riding the big bus up and down the very steep hill was unique and thrilling. Walking around just on the ice parking lot was a bit of a let-down but understandable for safety reasons. The views of the surrounding mountains and glaciers was spectacular. Pricey but worth it.
"We took the Brewster tour to visit the Ice Field. It was one of the coolest experiences we had during our trip. Our driver, Colin, provided a lot of history on the glacier and being able to walk on the glacier was incredible. Bring an empty bottle so you can leave with fresh glacier water. Dress warmly too - the winds took the temp down at least 30 degrees (F)."
The whole trip down the Icefields parkway is amazing and there are many esssential places to stop. The Ice field is one.
The Icefield Explorer was an extremely interesting and informative experience. The drivers were well informed and the view of the glacier was excellent.
On a sunny day in late May we visited the glacier. Parked in the car park next to the glacier and walked up to the edge of the glacier. Got some great photos and it was free.
"We left Jasper early and drove the 100 km's to the Columbia Icefields to beat the hordes of tourists for a once in a lifetime opportunity to walk on a glacier, and we are glad we did it. We arrived at 8:50 and were on the first bus out. There were only 11 of us on the bus and we had the Icefields to ourselves. Our guide was very informative and funny. There were no questions that he could not answer. We arrived at a graded area where we could get off for 20 minutes to walk around and take photo's. You could only walk around this area as we were informed that there are hidden crevices and cracked ice. You could even drink the water from the melting ice. By the time we arrived back at the centre there were buses full of tourists and you could hardly move around inside the centre."
"The most amazing drive on our roadtrip to Jasper. There are simply no words to describe driving thru this highway. We stopped for a short hike to the Athabasca glacier, and it was amazing. We went during winter, be careful where you stop along the highway, our car almost got stuck. Overall, simply breathtaking!"
"this was a great experience, we had a lovely sunny day so visibility was fab, this area is so vast, you really have to see it to believe it. the ride up on the ice explorer bus is good fun driver is informative, only had around half an hour up there, not sure if this is average or because we were on an organised tour, but to be honest theres nothing there but ice snow and tourists, so probably long enough"
"The Columbia Icefield tour is an experience you will love and NEVER forget. It is very popular so buy your tickets ahead of time or be prepared to wait in quite a long line. The ice-cat tour guides are great and very informative. The tour costs money. If you don't want to do the tour, you can park at the south side of the highway, OPPOSITE the Icefields Center and take a hike right up to the toe. Dress Warmly…its cold. The hike and parking are free."
"It sounds adventurous - walking on a glacier - but really you are driven up in a bus to a flat area on the glacier where you park alongside several other buses, get off and walk around the parking area with lots of other people, take photos and, after about 20 minutes, go back.Sorry if that review sounds a bit negative but it is what happens. The degree to which you will be excited by this will depend on how unusual it is for you to stand on compacted snow."
A must do in Jasper along with the skywalk. We went in May and the crowds were not bad at all. We heard it gets pretty busy.
"That's not something most of us do every day. What a great experience, going up onto the glacier in a specially designed bus then experience the glacier itself. Excellent!"
"Beautiful, Great Opportunity to see up close what all the tour guides were talking about. Where else could you walk on a Glacier. Our driver was very knowledgeable and had a great sense of humor which made the trip even more enjoyable. Our Brewster guide told us to bring empty water bottles with us and we did, that was the purist water I've ever tasted. If you live in the Southern States where you don't get the chance to enjoy the cold or snow very often - this excursion is a must."
"if you see how quick the glacier melts this is frightening. Scenery is amazing. Buses go up to the glacier and allow walking on it, but if you see how destroyed the glacier is, I have mixed feeling about people walking up this fragile ecosystem. Easy climb up to the glacier toe from the parking space across the icefield center."
"The ice field looked cool and you can hike up to it. I don't see the point in paying for the bus up to the ice field. There are lots of buses full of tourists waiting to go up. This seemed very much a tourist trap to me. There are bathrooms, a restaurant, and a gift shop in the main building."
"The ice fields were very interesting to see - the tourist center, not so great. It wasn't anything bad about the facility itself, but there were just too many tourists there milling around taking pictures.I would definitely recommend going out to the glacier. How ""cool"" it is to be able to say you walked on a glacier.Be sure to wear warm clothes though. The day we were there, it snowed and the wind was really whipping around. Brrr."
"This is a stop on the route between Calgary and Jasper in Alberta, Canada. It is sad to see the glacier retreating at a rapid pace, but the area is proud of what remains of its glacier and is more than happy to have you visit it on their supplied especially outfitted buses right out onto the glacier itself for a true photo opportunity. It is a short visit, but a worthwhile one to see a glacier up close and to actually stand on one. This will convert you to the need to prevent global warming, if any experience can. It's truly enjoyable."
it was like another world we travelled on the huge bus that took us up onto the icefield it was magnifiecent we took lots of photos it was another world
"We visited in the first week of June. I'm sure it would be stunning early spring as the melt starts but once the snow has gone there is only drab colours and scree on the mountain sides. There is a glacier which you can take a bus ride on but it's expensive for what it is and you can view it easily from the information centre, otherwise nothing much there to see from May to when the first snow falls."
Neat ride and walk onto the ice field. Not something you get to do in many places. Come enjoy before they melt away.
One of the few places where you can walk right up to a glacier from the highway. Incredible views and good hiking around the base of this ice field. Dress warmly even in June. The drive to and from this attraction from with side is worth it. Great roads and lots of turn offs to take pictures or video.
"I saw this in 1975 and again this past week. The change is stunning, but the ice field is still amazing to see and go to. This is truly something you should go see, even if it wasn't going to be disappearing. We drank ice water, and and had wonderful drivers bring us and inform us about what was happening and what had happened.I can't get over how much is gone since I was last here."
"Stunning views, areas to walk, the visitor center, historical information provided. There is an option to take a ride on the glacier; we did not do that."
"Travelled from Banff to Jasper on a day tour with Brewster’s
Columbia Ice Field was the main stop, buffet lunch included and a great time at the Icefields
Absolutely amazing and beautiful, the light snow fall topped off the wonderful trip"
What an amazing and vast frozen area sleeping between Jasper National Park and Banff National Park. The Columbia Ice field is a series of glaciers including the Athabasca Glacier which seems to be the only one reported here?]. The Ice field itself covers over 325 square kilometers and the depth of the ice varies from 100 to 350 meters.
"We took our children and they loved walking on ice and seeing the glacier from this angle. We had a few empty water bottles which we filled up from running water off the glacier and it tasted spectacular. This place is costly and the wait and queue's can take time, but I believe it's worth it for a unique experience."
"This visit was well organised , buses take you over the road to a second bus/ ice explorer where tour guides drive and explain about the ice fields. You only spend 15-20 min standing on the icefield -we had light snow falling which for us was fun . I would have liked more explanation once standing on the ice about holes and blue ice etc."
It's worth the time and money to visit the ice field just for the ride out onto the glacier. Very nice informative drivers.
"An amazing sight that future generations will never see, these glaciers are expected to endure another 70 years or so. This time, I was allowed to sip a bit of melted glacier water! Bundle up because it's chilly up there. The price of the ride to the glacier is high, but our Australian guide was informative and interesting. Mother Nature never disappoints anywhere along the Icefields Parkway. I did miss the Canadian flags featured in my past photographs of the glaciers. There are concessions, gift shops, and restrooms. The restaurant and snack bar close right at five, though."
"We visited Columbia Ice Field in 1997 and 2015 surprisingly we didn't notice any much change to the Glacier, the only thing that has changed there are many more tour buses now taking people there. The Ice Field is still so amazing to see, it's so vast. We were told not to climb up on the glacier many tourists ignored the instruction, If only the people could understand the damage they do. Where the buses stopped was on the lower part of the Glacier."
This is a nice place to stop and visit the ice field. . well worth it. . but the food and beverages in the cafe are expensive.
"You have to do this, a great experience. Came from Banff in lovely summer weather, but you need to be well wrapped up - you are on an ice field after all"
"The Columbia ice field was beautiful.
We went on the glacier tour out onto the glacier and really enjoyed that. It's such a pretty blue color under the snow."
"The last time we were there, you could go right up to the glacier and step out. Whether it is a safety issue or the fact the local company wants you to buy a ticket for their tour, it is not worth the hike up to the glacier. It is just as impressive from the road or parking lot. It is worth seeing."
"While touring the Rockies, we chose to visit the Columbia Icefield. Although the price seems a bit excessive for what is basically a short drive on a coach onto the ice, if you are going to visit this attraction, it is well worth spending the money to travel up onto the glacier while receiving an audio commentary on the history of the area from your driver. Most people won't get the chance to stand on a glacier, so make the best of the opportunity."
The Ice Explorer is the vehicle that you have to take to get on to the glacier. It is expensive - prox $50 per adult - but absolutely worth it. How many chances will you get to walk on on real glacier. Skip the skywalk.
Just an awesome view and one part of this Canadian visit we will never forget. Took heaps of photos. The walk up to the Glacier is a bit dangerous and the Authorities should at least construct some temporary steps and maybe railings.This whole drive from Banff to Jasper is one of the best in the World.
"If you want to view a glacier up close, but in solitude, then this is not the trip for you! It is a popular destination, so much so that each group seems even in May to be given an allocated time to start their trip.However, this is an amazing experience , from the moment you board the immense vehicles that cling to the moraines and take you onto and off the glacier, to the time walking on the body of the ice itself. It is sad to see how much the glacier has receded in recent years, as was well explained by the driver."
"We had visited the Franz Josef glacier in New Zealand by helicopter and loved it ,so had great expectations of the Columbia ice field .Unfortunately we found that it had been over commercialised and there were several bus loads of people allowed on the glacier at one time ,which for us totally destroyed the ambience.Its still a great thing to see if you haven't experienced one before , but disappointing for us"
"What an absolutely amazing experience visiting the Columbia Ice Field for the first time, something we couldn't even imagine in our lifetime . We rugged up for the adventure even though it was sunny with no wind which I guess was great for the month of April (26th) however we certainly need the warm gear. The visitors centre was interesting and warm and when we looked at the glacier it didn't seem that far away or that big, how wrong we were. We boarded the bus that took us out to the pick up point for the ice explore for the short but interesting ride to the glacier itself, our driver Dave was informative with a great sense of humour. Standing there was just so unbelievable, snow and ice everywhere something that will remain with us forever. You are only permitted to stay on the glacier for 30mins but in that time you know your in a very special place, we took some fabulous photos that we look back on in awe and realise just how lucky we were to visit such a wonderful place so far away from home."
"We were driving from Jasper to Lake Louise and stopped to view the Ice Field. The toe of the field was only about 1km from the car park and although the walk to the top was quite steep at times, the view when you got there was unbelievable. We did not do the tour onto the ice field itself. The stunning sight we saw was absolutely free. Take the time to call in if you are going past. You won't be disappointed."
Take your vehicle or take a tour bus to this destination. The ice fields offer rides as well. The glacier is melting and you will notice the receding lines . Experience this effect of nature first hand. Stunning and exciting to explore and take a walk on. A great experience for everyone
For something that is part of a National Park this visitor center has nothing to offer. It reminded us of a third rate ski warming lodge in the old days. There was little or no information on the ice fields. We have been to Hawaii's Volcano National Park where there was a wonderful center with all sorts of interesting information. Same with Mt Rainier and Mt St Helens in Washington state. It seems that at the Ice fields the only focus is to have people take the tour run by a private company. For shame Canada
Fantastic experience to be able to actually stand on the glacier. The bus driver was very friendly & informative.
This was up there with those OMG moments ! The most amazing experience - from start to finish - worth every penny - super smooth operation - Brewster company know exactly how to look after their customers and give them the most awe inspiring trip - everyone should see this once in their lives -
"not to be missed, once in a life time experience, this is a must on your way from banff to jasper. this is a great experience riding in giant vehicle right up onto the glacier."
"It is a well organized attraction, even with a bus ride and a glacier mobile ride to get there. The Glacier mobile Driver was really knowledgeable and fun. The glacier is freezing, so dress for it! There were people in flip flops and I had on wool socks! And I was comfy in my wool socks.There is not much to do on a glacier, but the photos are amazing and I know what it feels like now. It feels cold!!! It was worth it!"
"Amazing to walk on 300m + of frozen water, and drink from the fresh running ice water, direct from the glacier melt.This glacier is thousands (if not millions) of years old and is decreasing at a rate of 1 meter every year. Who knows how much longer it will be with us.Only downside is your only permitted 20 minutes to wonder around the ice bus stop point. What they fail to tell you, is that if you miss the bus, you can catch one of the many busses that travel to and from the glacier.Take warm clothes as it is qiuet cold on the glacier, especially when the winds blow."
"Took the ice fields glacier tour and we're lucky to have ""tall mike"" as our guide. Not sure what the rest are like but he was funny and made the trip very interesting. Travelled up to the glacier on a mixture of coach and ice vehicle. Walked around on the ice fields."
We choose to park and walk up to view the glacier. I had not been there in 32 years so from the road it was a noticable difference however the magnitude of the size still is there once closer. Parking at the base and taking the hike up to view was definately worth the effort. Did not take the Snow Coach this visit as we did not want to pay the price however enjoyed just getting up to the view point and gazing out over the massive ice field..the view sufficed for us.
We reached the Columbia ice field around noon and had good sumptuous buffet lunch at the centre. Took a bus to reach a foot of glacier. Then you board monstrous Ice walk vehicle with giant wheels that take you up the glacier. It was our first walk on the glacier and quite exciting. Surprisingly it was not too cold though we had woolens. It was rather depressing to note the glacier has retreaded considerably over last decade.
"You cannot come to this pat of Canada without visiting the glacier, it was great.well organised, great driver and narrative, great vehicles. You would miss out on an experience if you do not go."
I cannot express enough adjectives as to give my report We had a Japanese driver taking us to the ice field and he made the Day His name was Sam and he was so funny and knowledgeable. The walk on the ice field was enthralling Just fascinating and enjoyable
Well worth the visit. The glacier bus run is a whole lot of fun. On a serious note it's confronting to realise it's now ten minute drive from the visitors centre were the terminal moraine is to where the glacier now is. The sky view further down the canyon is good but not amazing. I would not bother with the expense.
"Went here on my trip to Vancouver stayed at Banff and then went here by coach going upto jasper loads of tourist around
The visit is a must"
"This is a unique attraction which principally falls into two parts - each priced separately or combined. The trip onto the glacier is spectacular, the Skywalk somewhat less so - this difference is reflected in the prices. We did both parts for about 80 Canadian dollars each so the price is somewhat less than stated in the heading(120).Queuing for tickets was lamentably slow - it took us about an hour from our arrival until we had the tickets in our hands.Tourists with AAA car insurance should remember to ask for 10% discount."
"You arrive at the cafe/tourist centre, then you are taken by bus to the snowmobile bus park. You then change to the snowmobile before being taken to the glacier. The glacier colour (in the cracks) is a beautiful aqua blue, such a beautiful colour. You get to walk on the glacier and our driver suggested that we didn't go off the parking area as glaciers can have crevices under the snow which you can't see. I'm glad we didn't move off the parking area as I did hear later that someone had fallen and broken their wrist. The glacier was covered in a substantial amount of snow and I enjoyed the visit."
"Sad to see what Brewster and Climate change have done to this attraction.Last visit 30 years ago, at that time a unique adventure. Brewster (the operating company) has now created a monster with monster people movers onto the glacier, monster gift shops and monster toilets (the dirtiest in the entire Nat. Parks)The glacier itself is shrinking at a rate that 2 generations from now there will be a plaque ""here used to be...."" The price to go onto the glacier is an astronomical $70 p.p. and even the other monstrosity , a walk way overlooking the same area you used to overlook from the highway at $40 is very high in my opinion.However in the National Parks, Brewster is the only ""independent"" that can call the shots re. transportation as well as most attractions.Having said all that it is still an amazing site to see and the Icefields Parkway is most amazing road in Canada"
The bus tour up to the Athabasca Glacier is unique if you have not done this excursion. Being able to tour up and walk on the base of a Glacier is unique however due to the dangers of crevasses you can not go exploring up the Glacier itself. You can also walk up to the tow of the Glacier from a lower parking lot for no cost but will miss our on the Ice bus tour experience.Although it might be a bit pricey it is one of those once in a lifetime experiences of the Canadian Rockies.
The Icefields Parkway in Alberta Canada follows the continental divide from about Lake Louise to Jasper. Along this spectacular drive is the Columbia Icefields. At the Icefield visitors center you can take an excursion onto the glacier in a huge vehicle designed for glacier travel. It also allows guests the opportunity to walk on the glacier. This journey includes some of the most spectacular views of the Canadian Rockies World Heritage sites.
You have to do this - it is fantastic and well worth the cost - The trill is worth it and at 900 feet over the canyon it is really a great view
You cant find many places in the world like this place that gives you an idea of how the world looks like before we were part of it
"I must admit that I didn't feel like a ""green-minded eco-traveler"" when riding the giant diesel-powered 6-wheeled ice crawler up to the ice field and then having the chance to walk about outside on the ice for a few minutes, but it was quite a memorable experience for us. I even had the chance to collect some really pure glacier water that comprised natural run-off, and am looking forward to making ice cubes from it to have with some decent scotch in the near future!"
You can easily view the receding glacier for free but you can also take a glacier vehicle up onto the glacier for a fee. Great information center is across the road with restaurants and restrooms and there are various tours you can take. Free parking. Great stop and very interesting.
"The Glacier Adventure at the Columbia Ice Fields is an unique and worthwhile stop on a trek between Banff and Jasper. The ice bus drivers are friendly, and walking on an actual glacier with amazing views is memorable. Bring an empty water bottle and fill up with pure, ice cold glacier water."
First we have to take shuttle bus from ticket office to the transit station. Then we have to change to the glacier vihicle that ride us to the glacier field. We learned about the glacier formation and riding the the special design vihicle with six wheel drive was a unique experience. Theglacier was wonderful.
"Brilliant what we could see, as it was blowing a gale and you needed goggles to see properly. The experience was what we came to see."
"Very well organised trip. Entertaining driver of the monster ice truck. Weather was not too good and had a complete white out on the way back, all added to the experience though! The actual glacier was very interesting and beginning to melt in places. Lovely blue hue to the glacier and water that had melted."
"This was one heck of a great experience. It was cold, but not the type of cold that goes through you. Just about all seasons were experienced on this excursion. I'll never forget the Columbia Ice Field for as long as I live. Just superb."
"This was the most unexciting event in my 5 weeks of holiday in Canada. May be I was spoiled by the glacier in New Zealand, all I can say this was very boring. They should also improve on the staff training, they had no idea what they were doing."
Its so beautiful and its a good hike. Nothing like a warm day with the cool wind off the ice. Lots of help with tours and hikes if you want.
You have to stop at the centre and take a bus ride up to the Icefield which has been receding so not sure why busses are permitted access and visitors permitted to walk on the icefield. Another bus ride to visit the Skywalk and I think quite a rip off for both.
"I didn't have much time here so considering I've hiked on glaciers in the past, a bus trip up to the glacier didn't interest me. Instead I did the skywalk. Some people may consider $30 a bit much but I think it's reasonably priced considering busses run every 15 minutes, self guided interpretive tour is well done once you figure out how it's set up and walking on glass seeing the ground way below was pretty cool. A few people were uncomfortable with this part and one lady got freaked out but most of the walk is on concrete so if you don't feel comfortable on the glass there is still lots to see."
Glacier Snow coach and Skywalk must-do. Parkway trip from Jasper 100km lots of wildlife but too many idiots getting out of their vehicles too close to the animals. Warning the visitor centre was under renovation and restroom was a dump. only two toilet stalls in order.
"I was dubious about this excursion but May was dry and sunny in Jasper and our eldest child was visiting so down the parkway we went.After many stops for look-offs we arrived. It is not excessively expensive but not cheap either. I appreciated the guides monologue, the snow mobile and the experience of traveling up to the glacier. Children under-12 years this is not a great value for money. I recommend hiking the paved drive down to the foot of the glacier as a better value for money and to burn-off youthful energy!This is located across the street from the Ice-fields Center."
"Not been in Summer but the winter panorama is truly stunning. An amphitheatre of snow, ice and glaciers on a truly grand scale. The drive along the Icefields parkway to reach it is also pretty special and do carry on to Jasper if you can for some great food and skiing at marmot Basin."
"This is superb, probably the highlight of the pre-Rocky Mountaineer part of the tour. We went on a coach to part-way up the glacier, then on the Athabasca Snow coach to the main part of the glacier, where we got off for about 20 minutes and had a good look round and a walk on the ice. Don't wear sandals! And take a warm cardigan or jacket."
"Don't pay! Just enjoy from the parkway road. Landscape is unique and beautiful and the whole 100km drive from Jasper is breathtaking. Stop at Athabasca Falls and Sunwapta Falls for free. See elk, deer and many black bears for free. Bring warm clothes if you are going to hike or have a picnic near the glaciers."
Interesting trip to the Columbia Glacier - mammoth 6 wheel drive bus that takes you via a 36 degree decline (incline on the return) to the middle of the glacier. In early May it was still safe to walk on the snow but be careful of dropping waist deep!!! The guides give very good instructions of do's and don'ts
"Quick ticket purchase, straight onto bus and then up to the specially constructed bus to go on the glacier. Spectacular views and oh so pretty."
"fabulous attraction, and it snowed the whole time the tour was on the glacier, make sure you have a hat, warm clothes and sunglasses for the glare, great buffet lunch included in the tour."
"A close encounter with Glaciers . The view is Anazing. The bus ride is pricey , however it is an experience. It is a specially engineered machine to go over the Glacier , have a closer view and feel.Walking on it felt like walking on snow . No snow shoes reqd. The view was very good."
"The first time I saw the Columbia Icefield was in 1964 and you could see it from the road. I returned again in 2006 and there was no glacier in sight. We had to walk 10 minutes from the closest parking lot, to see the edge of the glacier which has retreated far from were it was in 1960. Along the path there are year markers showing the distance it has melted. This is a must see for everyone. It is cold even on the warmest day, so take ski jackets and gloves."
"Drive safely through here but don't miss out on all the viewpoints, it's a very interesting landscape!"
"We visited the Columbia Ice Fields on a Saturday afternoon. The cost of the ticket was just under $60. Once up on top of glacier you get to spend 20 minutes walking around then go back down the mountain. The views are beautiful and being able to stand on a glacier a really neat experience, but way over priced."
"The road from Jasper to Lake Louise, along the Columbia Icefield, is one of the most beautiful drives I have ever taken. There are so many places to see along the way to hike, picnic, etc."
"The tour itself is interesting and the view is second-to-none. It's amazing to stand on a thousands-years old glacier (it's apparently is as deep as the Eiffel Tower is tall) in the middle of beautiful craggy mountains. The trip up to the glacier in the snow coach is also fun. However, I'm torn as to whether the $57 price tag is worth it. If you've never had the opportunity to do this before, then probably. As for the visitor's centre, you have to go there to buy your tour ticket, but otherwise, I'd give the place a skip. Parts are under renovation so maybe it's being spruced up a bit, but overall the facility is pretty Plain Jane, with an over-priced tacky tourist shop and a ridiculously over-priced, non-inviting cafeteria that serves uninspired fried food. The bathrooms weren't overly clean either. Overall, I'd say tour the glacier, but don't spend any more money at the visitors' facility."
We visited the Icefields as we happened to be passing. Unfortunately the hotel/visitor centre was closed and the road train was not running but we managed to walk as far as we could to the glacier in order to take some pictures despite the freezing temperatures. It is an impressive sight and well worth a visit.
"The ice fields were actually closed when we visited, but the area is something out of a picture postcard"
We arrived in April to find that it was still closed but we tool a hike up onto the icefields. Well worth the walk but dress appropriately. It can be cold up here and slippy and snowy (obviously) so wear some decent walking shoes.
"We parked just off the Highway and walked all the way up the hill. It's a GOOD hike so if your not physically fit take the bus. There is lots of cool info on the signs all the way up. If your a mineral or rock nut bring a book and spot the raw minerals you see. We had fun. It was not that cold but quite windy, hooded coat and gloves are recommended."
"There is a wonderful trail just south and east of the Icefields that climbs high above the highway for an amazing view of the Columbia Icefields. Give yourself at least 2 hours, moderate climb, bring water !"
"We stopped on the way to lake louise, however the village area was closed. We parked in the car park for a while and took some photos. Its pretty impressive.."
"It is big, huge, wonderful, you're in its awe as soon as you see it then you get into a bus then a second and a bigger bus, next minute you are standing on this majestic glacier looking back towards the tiny visitors centre down below. It is simply magical, a must do."
"It is certainly a beautiful drive, but unfortunately nothing was open. We would have liked to tour the ice fields and go out on the sky walk, but it was too early in the season. You need to visit when everything is open."
"The ice field is impressive, whether you get on it on a bus, or just walk up to it, and see it up close. It is eye opening, however, seeing all the marks of where the ice field used to be over the years as it has melted away. It's definitely a cool place to stop if you've never seen it before!"
"The drive along the icefield parkway is magnificent. The views are staggering. There is a new glass walkway overlooking a steep valley, but it was closed during our visit. The glacier was our final destination and well worth the drive. One note- this is a cold, wintery part of the world so dress accordingly. There is a reason why this remnant of the last age is still hanging around. It's cold here!"
I visited in early August and it was amazing! Definitely a place every Canadian should see before it shrinks to lake! Did the tour up (and down) some rocky terrain and that really got us in the right mind-frame and also answered many of our questions since we didn't know much about these ice fields.
"One of the most spectacular places on the planet!! Still closed in early April, but the scenery is beautiful no matter what season you are there. DRESS WARM if you are going to get out and walk about."
The views from the parks center are excellent and it is a great place to stop for a break but to get the real experience you need to give yourself enough time to take a snow coach up onto the glacier
There isn't much to see unless you do the bus tour that actually goes onto the glacier but even then its not anything that amazing. If you have never seen a glacier before then it will be awesome. I don't like how far away you are restricted from going to the ice itself but that's what happens when things get commercialized.
we enjoyed walking up to the borderline of this massive glacier. We didn't do the bus ride out onto the actual glacier. It was expensive for what was offered. If you take the walking track from the car park you can get fairly close (some steep moments) and read the markers along the way that show you how much the glacier has receded over time. Lunch at the information centre was average but reasonable and the balcony provides a great view of the Icefields.
"Visited in summer.We had taken advance tickets and hence the whole process was very smooth.
The glacier walk and the ride in the vehicles is something to remember.
Please remember to take a empty bottle to collect the Glacier water. The guides are very knowledgeable."
"Well organized tour in enclosed specially designed Ice field cruisers. After a short trip, you get out and you walk on ice. Yes, it's slippery, but it helps you appreciate the power of glacier. Also it shows you how they are retreating."
We were blessed to be able to go and see a part of one of the most beautiful natural wonders left. This place really puts things in to perspective. If your anywhere near Jasper or Glacier National Park you must take the time to go. Make sure you go out on the big buses.
"another great Canadian experience. its a touch expensive to get the bus up to the glacier but its worth it. the ice and amazing temperature drops as breathtaking and the taste of the fresh water is unqiue. The views from the glacier are great up to its source and the side glaciers, back to the road and the many car parks not so much.its worth a visit and is coming close to some of the Icelandic ice fields. worth the trip"
"Have driven the icefields parkway quite a few times, both in summer and winter. If you ever get the pleasure of driving this deserted stretch of highway in the winter, you'll realize why it's called the ""icefields parkway"". Road is pretty much a skating rink between nov-march. On one particular snowy winter drive through the night from Jasper to Lake Louise, I had to swerve way off onto the shoulder to avoid an obstacle course of car sized snow drifts that formed on the highway from the winds blowing down across the Columbia Ice Field. Such an amazing area that truly makes you realize both mother nature's beauty and power!Bring snow tires and a camera :)"
"We made a planned stop here whilst driving from Banff to Jasper, After buying the Ultimate explorer ticket from Brewsters in Banff, which gave us access to this and 3 other attractions, including the Glacier Skywalk. This ticket is more cost effective than paying for each attraction separately.It is recommended you queue up as soon as you arrive at the visitor centre and get your timed ticket for the tour bus as we had been advised queue lines can get quite long, although we only had to wait for 20 minutes for our tour time.Very well organised. A bus takes you to the foot of the Glacier where you transfer to the Ice Explorer bus which drives onto the glacier. Drivers are knowledgeable and give humorous commentary. We had about 15 minutes on the ice, which is plenty of time to look around, take photos etc.Hint: Take an empty water bottle each with you and have a go at filling it up with fresh running glacier water....probably the best water in the world !!!.You also get the bus from the visitor centre to the skywalk (there is no public parking at the skywalk so this is your only option) This ticket is not timed and you can spend as long as you want at the skywalk."
"Its a natural beauty.. The fact that its a glacier and receding makes it a place to visit.What brewster charges for it for what it provides doesn't make any sense.Its not like they maintain the glacier.. its just a 1/2 km bus ride to the glacier with a guide cum driver that they provideyou could park near by and also take a walk to reach the same place. May not be possible with young kids.Glaciers/icefield is worth the visit for their age, the colour of ice, the sun shining against ice capped mountains and all the natural beauty.."
"We rode the ice explorer vehicle with the five foot high tires onto the glacier. It was a great experience. Our guide was fun and knowledgeable. We really enjoyed getting out and walking on the glacier. It is amazing that the glacier loses ten feet of depth and fifteen feet of length yearly. We were glad to be able to experience this natural wonder, and would highly recommend it."
Fascinating to see the moraine deposits and drive all the way to the edge of the glacier. To see this you need to take the Ice Explorer Tour buses. An absolute must
"The Visitors Center was under renovation, so there was very little available there. An exhibit/museum section will open 2015. We skipped the expensive snow vehicle ride onto the glacier in favor of our B&B host suggestion start at the visitor center and see the first sign of where the glacier ended 170 years ago, then drive the small road (across from Vis Ctr) approaching the base of the glacier, and watch for the small date markers that show the glacier's retreat/melt-off over the years. At the end of the road a parking lot lets you get out and hike across glacier-marked rocks."
"I'd avoid the 'bus tour' and look up some of the day long guided hikes despite the fact I haven't done those yet (on the list for 2015). It is a beautiful place to stop in on your drive through the Alberta Rocky Mountains, but don't plan your trip just around this unless you're on a full day hike."
"This is a perfect spot to stop and think about ice ages and what glaciers can do to a landscape. The Athabasca Glacier drops down from the Columbia ice field that sits on the mountains tops and the road comes quite close. The glacier tongue has been retreating for decades so the landscape that was covered only 1-4 generations ago by ice is now exposed and you can see how fast the plants move into the new habitats. Quite remarkable how nature claims back anything that is not covered by ice. Also, check out the beautifully polished rock surfaces (bedrock) or the polished cobbles or small boulders. The walk from the lower parking lot up to the ridge takes about 20 min. Dress warm as a cold wind blows always down the glacier. We did not bother taking the bus up onto the glacier ice as the wait and line-up was quite long and we have been on glaciers many times before. If this is your first and only experience, it may be a very good and convenient way to visit up-close the Athabasca Glacier. If you have a full day - a must do is the hike up to Wilcox Pass. If the weather is great - this gives you a stunning view over the ice field and the Athabasca and Dome glaciers. The start is from the Wilcox Day use area a bit down the road towards Lake Louise. You don't need to go all the way up even 1 hrs up the trail it is an absolutely rewarding view."
we had a Japanese tour guide on out ice fields bus. He was hilarious and had the entire passenger list eating out of his hand. Very knowledgeable and friendly. The glacier itself is breathtaking and pristine.
"Up close and personal, surrounded by glaciers you can touch and walk on. A fun ride on huge machines, driven by good looking young men. Well worth the visit. If we'd known how good this would be we wouldn't have bothered doing other trips to glaciers."
"we decided to do the walk ""over a glacier"" -- were bussed off back up the highway - to walk over a piece of rock. you get a much better view of the glacier from either the restaurant or the car park - for free. Don't do it"
"We arrived at the Columbia Icefields via a coach trip. First stop was the Visitors Centre, Cafe and Shop whilst we waited for our trip to start. It is a 90 minute excursion in a snowcoach, I cannot tell you how fantastic this is the sheer size of everything and when you disembark and stand on the icefield it is unbelievable. Our tour guide gave us plastic cups to try the icecold water. Just magical."
drove the ice field parkway in Fall - magnificent. Not to much snow or ice. need 4 wheel drive with snow tires for safety.
"Really interesting, well trained drivers very entertaining. Don't miss it but don't eat at restaurant it's no great and quite pricey but there's no where else"
"Scenery beautiful in Winter. Saw many animals including a lynx. Roads are not the best so drive slow, be cautious."
"You can visit this in a specaially adapted bus, but you see and learn far more by walking on the glacier. You have special grips to put on your shoes, and you are perfectly safe if you stay with your guide. The glacier is constantly if imperceptably changing all the time. You only get to see a small part of the total icefield, but it is enough to give you an idea of the vastness of this icefield."
"Fortunate to see the ice fields in real where many only can see in pictures. Wonderful natural creation where melted blue and white snow starts the river which travels over 5000 kms to Arctic sea. Skilled drivers of the purpose built bus explained the facts about this natural creation and you can see what is the Global warming is with your own eyes. The areas of melted snow is so many kms long where now you have to travel so far to see the fields. Surrounded by snow capped mountains, weather stormed trees which grows only sideways and washed down pebbles this attraction is moneys worth."
"Gorgeous views, hiking and tours of the Columbia Glacier. Dress warmly and bring your hiking boots. While quite crowded in the summer months, it can be much quieter in the fall through spring, though of course weather can be a factor, especially if trying to get good pictures."
Wonderful. Everyone in the family loved it. There is a cost to travel on the bus but it is worth the experience.
"Really fun tour with a great guide/driver -- definitely worth the drive to get to the departure point. Dress warmly even in summer, though, as even I was surprised at how cold my feet were standing on that ice. It's beautiful and the guides, who are quite funny, share some interesting facts about the age and formation of the glacier and why parts of it look blue, etc."
definitely worth seeing. amazing views. very cold in november though! Dress warm. Would definitely stop again if I was driving by
"Let's start with the distance from where you park to where the glacier has receded to due to global warming. It's far! Bring your hiking boots/shoes. Also, dress warm. The wind seems to whip through the area and send a chill up your spine. The path is a lot of rocks and what-not so don't expect and groomed trail or paved path. But in its defence there is something incredibly rewarding for those brave enough to make the trek. Imagine seeing a glacier that may not exist in another hundred years. It's a chance to see something that is remarkably natural (but is dying)."
"This is a really excellent place, with some wonderful activities. If you don't mind walking, you can get onto the glacier yourself, or you can take the paid tours. The only thing is that you need to mortgage your house to eat at the interpretive centre, if you can get anywhere near the food because of the sea of people that is everywhere. They were mostly very nice people, though..."
Went onto the glacier in big Brewster trucks which was fun. Amazing walking around on the ice. Take an empty bottle to fill with glacial water. Wasn't cold.
"A quick stop at the Columbia Ice Fields, another great experience. Cold.. so dress warm & remember to bring your camera."
A great chance to get to walk on a glacier including the iconic big 4 drive buses to get you there. Something you must do if you are in the area.
"A chance to walk on a glacier, be it only for 20 minutes. Unusual experience, including the bus ride on huge tyres. A must do if you are in the area"
"The ice field was beautiful to look at and a great experience. It just doesn't last for long. You go out on this really big bus/truck type thing and get a bit of a talk on the way (it's only about 15 minutes). Once there you get to go out on the Icefield have a walk around, take some photos, then back on the bus/truck thing to head back. Your there for about 15 minutes. So nice to say you've done it, just don't expect much time there."
"Closeness to the highway is a benefit and a curse because of the crowds. You can park in the lower car park and walk close the edge, passing the year markers showing how much the glacier has retreated over the years. Personally I would not spend the money on the over snow transport as there are more beautiful glaciers around - but it is easier/cheaper to get to. Alaska and New Zealand have prettier more spectacular glaciers - a little harder to get to though !"
"First of all its way too expensive for what you get. 10 -15min bus ride, the driver couldn't stop talking, really annoying to listen all the way screaming voice. Should be optional to listen information and random facts. Some people might just want to relax and absorb the views through the bus window. And the glacier itself is really boring and not much to see. I would suggest to head to Jasper and visit Angel glacier at Mt Edith Cavell, its free and you will be blown away by the scenery! I can guarantee that, plus you get to see glacier from very close and amazing pond with ice chunks in it. Thats what I call an experience but not this touristy rip off."
"Went on the ice field your - aside from being fall and one of the last tours of the season (very chilly) the guide was fun, the scenery breathtaking, and the big bus/buggies cool. A worthwhile adventure."
"We hiked up the glacier in September with a company called Ice Walks. It was totally awesome and breathtaking, and the guide was really knowledgeable about the local area. You can go up on a bus, but you don't really get to experience the glacier and see all the exciting bits like millwells, etc. It was a fairly easy hike up and down, so anyone who is reasonably fit will have no problem with the walk. Definitely one of the highlights of my trip to the Rockies!"
The driver taking us to ice field was very funny and informative the views were beyond belief and a never to be forgotten memory .food at restaurant was good and great photo opportunity for more picturesque snaps
"You go in a big, different bus and when you get there you just need to start a snow ball war, it´s so funny and beaultiful!!!"
Amazing experience. Walked on the glacier - how often do you get to do that? Went up on the Brewster $1.2m 'moon buggy'. Another great experience. The glacier is retreating daily so it was wonderful to visit before it disappears.
What a great experience to walk on a glacier! The guide was funny and knowledgeable. It was so so so so so cold!
"This is an amazing thing to do if you are travelling on Highway 93 to or from Jasper area. You first travel on a bus before boarding a special snow coach which takes you onto the actual glacier. Commentary is given during the journey, which explains the glacier's history (it is sadly retreating) and the various features."
"We visited the Ice fields when we were kids, and we have been returning about every 10,15 years. We were simply amazed at the changes to the Ice Field and to the surrounding area. You can walk or drive down to the valley floor (free) and then hike up and then down close to the Ice field (free) The hike up is steep , no handicap access on this portion. You can take the snow cats ($$). Well worth the climb or the snow cat. Read the signs, they will tell you were the snow was and when."
"This is one of the top 5 drives I've taken. We were lucky on traffic as it was a Friday in October. We had beautiful sunny weather through some of the most spectacular mountains.The road is very mild with gentle climbs as it follows a river up a glacial valley, then over the otherside.Take your time and stop at every overlook to take pictures. You'll love it."
"A great experience - go there before all the glaciers melt away. Great guides, interesting forms of transport and a restaurant that resembles a school meals service."
"Another stop on our journey from Jasper to Banff and well worth making the effort to walk from the parking area to the foot of the impressive icefield. It is quite a severe uphill climb and takes your breath away at times during the twenty minutes walk.If you are reasonably fit then this spectacular sight should be included in your ""to do"" list on your visit to Alberta."
"Wow, this is a must see destination, Between the Skywalk and Glacier walk it is hard to choose which is best. The glacier inn is very commercial but expected considering what's on offer, Great value for the price. Something everyone should do if in the area."
This adventure was breath taking in every way possible. We were actually walking on the Glacier and it was bitter cold and very windy. You get there on a huge snow built vehicle for this excursion. The tires are almost 5 feet 10 inches high. This was thee best adventure tour we have ever taken. The day we were there it was clear enough that we could see farther than on a normal day. Our guide said most days are not as clear and sometimes you can't see more than 10 feet in front of you. If you come to stay in the Banff area this is an absolute must do before anything else.
"There are good guides on the special bus (Brewster Ice explorer) that takes you to the middle of the glacier. The 90 minute trip costs approx. $50ea and was worth doing. The ice mass is one of the largest south of the artic. The glaciers are receding every year. 70% of the world’s water comes from glaciers. The streams from this glacier flow to three oceans, Pacific, Atlantic and Artic. Very cold out there, dress appropriately and go early to avoid the queues"
Not a super cheap outing but interesting and the snow machines that crawl on the ice area pretty cool. Good narrator.
"I think the thousands of people do this experience every week. So, this is not a private experience. You do, however, get to walk for a few minutes on an actual glacier. Also it's not cheap. I think we paid 40-50$ per adult. The big ice buses they use to take people up to the glacier are interesting. The wheels are 8-10 feet tall. Also, on the way up you will at times be traveling at a 45 degree angle. The actual experience walking on the glacier was difficult to fully appreciate. The area they allow you to walk on is rather boring. Actually it reminded me of walking on a frozen lake. They have to restrict the area people walk in due to the extreme hazards that are possible on a glacier. People have actually died trying to walk on these glaciers by themselves. I should mention that it's possible to do an actual ""walk up"" the glacier with an experienced guide. I think this hike (with the guide) can be arranged at the visitor center.I should mention the Ice Field Visitor center has an ok/fine restaurant. We made the mistake of stopping at the awful Saskatchewan Crossing place on the way up from Lake Louise. Also, I think the skywalk portion of the Ice Field experience was a big rip-off"
"We were looking forward to this but fortunately did not book in advance. Very commercial and does not fit in with the rest of the area. Very expensive to walk on ice, old or not. The new glass walk seems like it should be strapped to a skyscraper, not a rock wall. Too many cool nearby places to spend time to waste it here."
An experience one must add to the bucket list and ensure it is ticked off. My husband and I travelled to Athabasca Glacier in the Columbia Ice Fields and found the experience awe inspiring. The driver of the snow truck was entertaining and knowledgeable.A definite bucket list item.
"We stopped off at the Columbia Icefield with a booking for the Ice Explorer. Amazing vehicle carried the group onto the Athabascus Glacier; where we had barely 30 minutes to experience the ice, the cold, the clean air. Back to the centre, where there are excellent facilities."
We went up to the glacier in September. It was not what we expected. You are taken up to the glacier with about 5-7 other massive ice vehicles. You are only able to stand on an area which they have cut out of the ice with hundreds of other people and then you head back to the information centre. Is it even hard to get a photo without getting someone else in it. Kids enjoyed the ride to the glacier but otherwise not worth it.
Twice travelled and twice enjoyed immensely. So much scenery to take in along the entire parkway it's almost a sensory overload. Too beautiful for words or for still photographs to capture.
"Anyone can experience the ice field even if without technical skills or ice climbing equipment. 2 options are available: car+easy walk to the front of the glacier (for free), or bus tour directly on the ice field (c.a. 50 CAD per person). The tour brings you on the biggest glacier of the Rockies, where you can walk and even feel like an expert mountaineer. The drive to the glacier itself is super fun aboard those big monster-buses and the crew is friendly and puts you at ease. ( if you are sitting in the front rows they might even let you switch the gear!) Be careful: it's a glacier, it's cold in all seasons. Definitely worth the price."
The Columbia Ice Field is the only freely accessible glacier in North America except those in Alaska. You can take a short hike to the glacier or ride on the glacier via the Glacier Adventure offered within the park for a fee.
"The trip to the glacier was very professionally run. I have visited other glaciers and you do not necessarily have to drive on them, but this one has receded enough from the road that it would be hard to access by hiking to it, if they even let you do that. However, the food and crowds at the cafeteria were abysmal and we were there in the off season. The price of the poor quality food was extremely high, don't eat there."
"I was a little disappointed in the Colombia Ice Field partly I think because the glacier is obviously receding and because there were many people there. However the ""tour"" is very efficiently run with a bus taking everyone from the Centre to get on the special vehicles designed to travel on the glacier. There was a moment when one travels down a VERY steep gradient, but the drivers have done it 100's if not 1000's of times"
"It is very well organised tour in a big bus Brewster to Atabasca glacier. It is a great opportunity for many who cannot strain physically to have an experience of seeing a glacier, walking on it and spending some time on it."
"Spectacular scenery and a large visitor centre with plenty of parking and washrooms. The glacier itself can be reached by either walking up a trail to the face, or by shuttle bus which leaves from the visitor centre and takes you up and onto the centre of the icefield, where you can step outside onto the ice for a photo. These shuttle leave about every 15 minutes. There's a great place, a short drive away, called ""The Crossing"" if you don't want to eat at the iceflields centre or it's too crowded in the busy season. The Crossing is a restaurant and cafe, so it's your choice whether you have time for a longer meal or just want a quick snack in the cafe. Great food (try the Yam Fries in the cafe). Good prices and the staff were met were helpful and polite."
"it was a 20 min hike up to the glacier, very cold and very windy, but beautiful, I wouldn't recommend it for the elderly - take the tour"
Had a clear day while on ice field and our driver for Brewsters was great. He was very knowledgeable for the history of the area and explained the different terrain.
Good service and experience. We did not have to wait in line too long . The staff were very customer friendly and guides were fantastic.
Just one hour south of Jasper this attraction will appeal to all ages and interests. Hard not to appreciate the knowledgable guides loaded with interesting facts. There is a restaurant there if you need it. We went in October and needed warm jackets. Good hour well spent.
"Before arriving we had researched the tourist trappings and decided against it. The Visitor Centre holds very little information but is a good comfort break. The combined ticket of bus and Skywalk seemed a complete rip-off to me (particularly the Skywalk is 6 kms away and basically gives views that you can get by pulling to the side of the road and peering over the edge). That being said if you want the experience of walking actually on the Glacier then this is the only way you can do it. We drove and parked about half a kilometer from the Glacier and took a stroll up the hill to the edge. It was a beautiful sunny day with azure skies and the photos do not indicate how blooming cold it was (why am I surprised - I was stood on the edge of an icefield) so take a coat even if it is warm in the car park. The information boards along the walk were informative and fences kept you away from the dangerous areas (apparently Glaciers have a healthy appetite for unsuspecting children!)Now this is personal so take it or leave it - don't bother parking on visitor center car park but drive to the car park directly underneath the Glacier (if open) and take the walk uphill to the edge. Take whatever photos you want and then get right back to the car. For me the surrounding mountains are more spectacular than the Glacier, especially if they have snow on them and the view from the road at the top of the hill gives you a full panorama. There were road works around the Skywalk when we passed it and although they are trying to make it something exceptional we saw better views from big bend and pull in places all along the Icefield Highway."
"Being from Calgary, Jasper is right in my backyard, so I figured I would take advantage of it! Booked the tickets online for the Columbia Ice Fields and the Skywalk - and it was an amazing experience! First off the day was gorgeous, the sun was shining and the sky was blue. Getting to the Information Centre was extremely easy, lots of parking. I do suggest getting there early before the tour buses. A coach bus took us up closer to the glacier, where we then transferred to 1 of 23 (in the world!) - 6 wheeled vehicles designed specifically for this! Our guide on this vehicle (Shane) was extremely knowledgeable, funny and really enjoyed what he did... And it showed. Jokes about smurfs drinking gatorade to turn the glaciers blue, to very informative information about 700 year old trees... It was the perfect mix of fun and facts. Once on the glacier it was an experience and a half to walk on 600 feet of ice... How many years did it take for that moment! P.S. Do NOT forget to bring a water bottle and fill up with THE freshest water you'll ever taste... Straight from the source! Back down to the centre a bus was waiting to take us to the Glacier Skywalk. Open May 2014, there were audio guides to use (free with admission) with info on the ecosystems, glaciers, history, and many stops along the way for the photo lovers out there - and being able to go at your own pace and not be herded along in a tour was so great. The glass bottom loop at the end taking you out above the canyon was great, perhaps a little overrated, but the exhibit as a whole was wonderful. Definitely worth the day trip. The staff were fantastic with jokes and smiles, answering any questions anyone had. Everything was set up very well, and we didn't have to queue for very long for anything. As well, make a day of it and do one or two of the hikes around the area and check out some of the lakes and beauty of the area... Need at LEAST a day if not two for this area alone!"
"We were fortunate to get a good clear day when we went up, I gather its a 1 in 3 chance so if its clear and you can see the top station go. What a view."
"As far as I am concerned the Columbia Ice Field is completely overrated.The Visitor Centre holds no useful information at all, but sells tickets for an ""adventure"" in which you can enjoy sitting in an overdimensional bus being driven onto the glacier.The other offered activity the Skywalk is not actually at the glacier at all, people are taken in buses to a completely unrelated place to the glacier.The only useful offered activities are guided tours onto the glacier, which obviously require some more time.The Parks Canada trails are not bad and offer some interesting views, but if you want to see a real glacier go to Mount Edith Cavell, where a short trail offers some spectactular views of the Angel glacier and the glacier lake."
"The best part of this experience was the guide/driver explanation along the way. Informative and interesting. Once you get there, it is just a walk on ice, something I do every day back home in the winter. Not cheap for a short ride on a bus just to walk on ice. Possibly more impressive for someone from a warm country."
"Our party of four took the Ice Explorer vehicle from the visitor center located at the Athabasca Glacier. After transferring from a bus, we boarded a giant Ice Explorer transport that took us approximately one kilometer out onto the glacier. Although freezing cold and drizzling, we were allowed to walk around and explore the glacier for about 15 minutes. The Ice Explorer driver was very informative in pointing out many geologic formations and explaining how the glacier is quickly receding each year. One can also hike from a parking lot near the glacier and walk out onto the glacier, but the Ice Explorer takes you much farther out onto the glacier than you can walk (unless you have the proper boots and protective gear.) Take heavy jackets as the wind is blowing through the pass constantly, and it is COLD even in August!"
Really? You'll spend hundreds of dollars to jump on a fancy bus and drive several hundred metres onto a bit of ice? Each to their own...
"Great experience. Guides are excellent, adding a lot of interesting info to the actual experience. The adapted 6WD buses are great going up and down the inclines to the glacier."
We were given a time to be at the coach which took us up to the Icefields. We then transferred to the ice explorer which slowly took us onto the ice. We alighted onto the ice and spent about 15 minutes there before being recalled to the transport. Excellent.
"A picture perfect day. The walk to the Columbia Ice Field glacier takes about 25 minutes from the parking lot. We decided to go under the yellow barrier and walk up to and on the Glacier. There were lots of people on the Glacier so we felt it was safe and we did not venture that far on the Glacier. You do need to have hiking boots or hiking shoes are best as you are walking over the rubble from the Glacier after you go under the yellow barrier. You need to dress warmly as it is cool like walking into a fridge, hat and gloves are recommended."
"we went on a busy holiday wk end and we not able to get reservations on bus that went out on glacier. we parked then walked. parking lot was crowded, but as people left spaces opened. area was COLD. take gloves, hat and coat. many people hiked in summer clothing not at all prepared for the cold."
"This was fantastic! We loved the experience, lots of pictures and breathtaking scenery. Quite an engineering feat!"
"The travel centre is fantastic and the ride on the specially designed bus to get you to the glacier from the travel centre is an experience on its own. Being on the Glacier is brilliant, it is cold so rug up. I heard that it is only time before the glacier disappears so make sure you get to experience it."
"When considering atmospheric warming and the shrinking of ice fields and glaciers in the Northern Hemisphere this is a graphic example with suitable signposting and notices on what's left of the glacier (still quite a lot but nothing like there was 100 years ago) showing the points lower down the mountainside the ice reached in previous years. There are also icefield tours in some kind of bus as well as guided hikes across the ice. These are unlikely to be helping the situation greatly.This is a much visited attraction with its own tourist centre on the other side of the highway with associated catering and masses of bus tours calling in.All said, the glacier and surrounds are still spectacular but nothing like their undoubted appearance from decades gone by."
"We drove down ice field and were blown away by - well - everything. The majestic mountains, trees, sky, clouds, rivers - the whole caboodle. What a fabulous country and a memorable drive."
"The sky walk was closed for the day when we arrived due to the dangerous weather conditions so we did not get to see this. We were stopped on the north side though due to the workers making sure the loose rocks on the mountain were removed so managed to get some great photos around the sky walk. Trip to the Athabasca glacier is good however they only give you about 15 mins on the glacier and will leave without you if you do not come back to the bus when it toots. There were so many buses doing the same thing we did not hear the 3 toots and the bus left without us despite us running after it, We had to find another bus that was not full to return us to the information center."
We thought this was going to be a real ice field and it turned out it was the end of a worn out glacier. Not worth the stop to see the ice field although the museum is great.
We hesitated to take the Brewster bus ride on the glacier as it was a drizzly day. Our reward was a full rainbow from horizon to horizon plus blue ice. We drove the ice fields parkway twice and stopped at all of the waterfalls and hiked the Edith Cavel trail (not really 45 minutes -due to closure for slippage)/ We saw blue ice floating in the water below the glacier.
"We were traveling through the Rocky Mountaineer tour and this is one of the stops. Absolutely enjoyed it. Our driver Dave, on board the Ice Explorer was great. Gave us a great ride to the glacier and had everyone hysterical laughing. What a sight and feel to be on the glacier. It was an extremely cold and dizzily day but that made it all the more exciting. We thought ahead and bought ski hats in the gift store. Definitely recommended."
Although the whole way down the Icefield Parkway we didn't stop and do any of the attractions (Due to driving from Edmonton to Banff via Jasper so was like a 9-10 hour drive!!)We saw this attraction with the bus driving up it as we drove past. Obviously we did stop and take pictures though as we did with many of the lakes on the way down.
"This was the second time I have been out here & I just love it. What an amazing experience with friendly, knowledgeable drivers. It's not cheap but not only is it a remarkable experience but if it encourages people to think about climate change & human impact then it is worth it's weight in gold."
"We opted to park at the bottom of the ice field and hike up. It wasn't that far but did notice we were out of breath due to the elevation, but a pretty easy hike aside from that. You can't go on the glacier if you hike up but you get really close with just a small river between. Was very cold so dress warm. Worth seeing for sure!"
"The scale of the views, the nearness of the glaciers, etc., etc. make this an unforgettable area to visit."
"It was oh so much better. It started when we met our driver, her name was Jaques. She made the whole trip to the glacier fun with a capital F. Standing on the ice you felt as if you were on the top of the world. Great experience ... We recommend this trip"
Eat before you go. The food is overpriced and awful. It is worth doing and an amazing experience. There are 68 toilets for women however when we were there a lot were broken
"The icefeilds are nothing like what they use to be. With all the ice melting, it is such a shame. The tram is the only way to see what it use to be like"
Take coach up to the base of the glacier and then transfer into the six wheel all terrain bus that takes you up and out on the glacier. This is an experience that is available in very few countries in world.
"Loved the trip on the ice vehicle. The guides are very young but all very informative and make the trip a lot of fun aswell, they are all enthusiastic about the location. Got so close to the glaciers and took some good photos"
The glaciers are in my view always worth seeing. The sad part is seeing how much they have receded since 1975 and again how much since 2009. See them before they are all gone and if you doubt climate change then this will demonstrate what man is doing to the planet. Brewster needs to stop taking the buses up on to the Glacier!!
"It is worth a visit. If you can visit on weekdays as you will not be stuck in a sea of tourists! If you have time buy the glacier and skywalk package, you will save money and the skywalk is worth to stop by."
"A bus takes you to the transfer station up the hill, and you get in a special vehicle to go up on to the glacier. Best part was the commentary which was brilliant all the way up. Informative and often comical. Essentially the glacier was just a big bit of ice but great to see and sad it is shrinking so quickly."
Astounding tour on the glacier brilliant tour guides who were entertaining and very knowledgeable but the star was the scenery it was cold but spectacular probably the highlight of an already astonishing trip to Canada would recommend to anyone
Arrived on a very snowy day in early September. The car park was heaving and so was the cafe with coachloads of Asian tourists. Must be a fantastic scene on a clear day but suspect there aren't too many at this elevation.
If you have a chance visit the Columbia Ice Field!!! What a great experience!!!! They take you up in these special made vehicles and then let you walk on the ice!!! Worth the time and money!!
It is so sad to know that in another 100 years this spectacle of nature will sit atop of the mountain as it is receding at an alarming rate. In Jasper the temperature was 27 degrees Celsius and at the foot of the glacier it may have been 4 degrees with wind chill of minus temps so take a hoodie for the 2 km uphill climb to the foot of the glacier.
Th Columbia ice field may be seen up close on a tour. We were on the tour which took us to the glacier in a bus then transferred us to a giant wheeled bus which took us up on the glacier. We got out and walked on the glacier. Great experience.
We drove up to the moraine in front of the glacier and then walked up to the roped off area. A most impressive sight and one that makes you earth history class come to life. There was no cost to do this. We came back 3 days later to do the bus trip but it was poring rain so the bus trip will be another time.
"Excellent, even on a day when it was raining and windy, providing you have the right clothes.
The vehicles are different and the drivers entertaining."
How much fun is it to walk on a glacier? Lots! The vehicles they use to transport you to the glacier was just as much fun......
"Strarted snownig on way to icefield, and glacier was nearly coveredin cloud, but as we left the Icefields centre the cloud lifted and we stood on Glacier in sunshine under blue skies."
"Staff were helpful and friendly and knowledgeable, food provided in restaurants good. Time on the ice field to walk around, take warm clothes lol"
This was one of my goals to do on our 7 week adventure out west. It was well worth the money spent. What a thrill to be standing on a glacier.
As a one off experience this is great fun and certainly different. The trip onto the glacier by big truck followed by a walk on the glacier is very stage managed but nevertheless something not to be missed. Maybe if I should find myself there again I would do the trek up the glacier - still very touristy but perhaps a little more real.
We went on this wonderful adventure and really enjoyed the commentary by the driver on the way to the Glacier a lot of fun. The only downside very touristy and lots of people going on this excursion. But well worth it
"Really fun touristy thing to do, not cheap but if you have never gone on the big trucks, go have fun and take pictures. you can see the glaciers from the parking lot, but to really feel how big they are take the tour, it takes about an hour. go on a clear day and go early, it gets busy with all the tour buses"
"To see a retreating glacier in such close proximity and imagine it 10 / 20 50 years ago is an incredible experience. Plenty of photo opportunities and not an overly crowded location. Even in summer, bring hat and warm clothes. Not sure I approve of people (and vehicles) trampling on the actual glacier - are you not speeding up the melting process?! :-( Great experience and the Centre has a fantastic giftshop. Warning: The Icefield Centre charges exorbitant prices for basic food - bring a picnic!"
well here you can -- you won't be alone but it is a once in a life time event so you might as well do it. Well organised trip. Guide was an anarchist who left half the bus on the ice - but hey no one died!
"Really enjoyed the experience of going out onto the glacier in the 'ice bus' up and down some hugely steep hills! Very cold and windy out there, but the view was fantastic. The information that the drivers give is really interesting and adds to the experience. I'd recommend this over the skywalk any day. Well worth the $50 price tag in my view."
"The views of the glacier are spectacular. You don't have to pay for the tour to view the glacier, but for the whole experience you might consider doing just that. Every time I come here I am amazed to see just how much this glacier has receded over the years.The Ice fields Skywalk is a bit of creative marketing at work. The advertising and pictures would lead you to believe this Skywalk is right over the glacier - this is not so. You pay $27 per person to get on a tour bus that takes you a couple of miles north of the glacier. The Skywalk juts out over a mountain canyon, nothing else. You can get the same views for free along the numerous pullout along this highway. Many a lot more spectacular than this Skywalk. Also note - if you have disability or mobility issues, there is a rather lengthy walk to get to the Skywalk, with no benches so that you can rest.This attraction is a real ripoff."
The trip on the ice field bus and then the Ice Explorer was spectacular. Our guided tour to the ice fields was jammed with fascinating facts about the glacial ice. We had time to walk out on the glacier that is 1000 feet thick and to taste the water.
Although it was a cold and snowy day in may 2013 it was well worth the frostbite to travel on one of the unique Ice Explorer coaches over the glacier. Made me feel like a mechanical Scott of the Antarctic
"It takes approx 1.5 hrs from Jasper on Hwy 93, the traffic moves well, however there was conctruction and there were people breaking away rocks from the mountain side,roadside at Skywalk."
"It was worth a stop, but the long wait and the bus ride before the ice vehicle ride was a bummer. I suppose the ice field was interesting, but not really exciting. On the other hand, the views were phenomenal."
"We are from Calgary and never seem to make it up to the Icefields in our mountain travels so we did the whole touristy bit and did the Icefields tour and Skywalk package. I thought the package was very reasonable priced. Cool experience. The sno coaches are cool going up and down very steep hills on the way to the glacier, but for seasoned mountain skiers, the stop on the glacier just reminded of the ski season to come!! The bus drivers/tour guides are very young and energetic but perhaps a but uninformed! Our guide pointed out the continental divide around us which decided if water ran south into the Colorado River and the Hoover Dam or north east across Canada to the Bay of Fundy ( her home). Ummmmmm....I don't think so!!"
"We took the bus tour to the ice field, it was 50 bucks each person, and the driver was a great guide! We saw glaciers from very close, played with ice, and it was worth every penny! The visitor centre has a great restaurant.I recommend a bus tour to people of all ages, just take your warm clothes if you really want to have fun."
"Did this experience on a Rocky Mountaineer tour so did not have to wait in line. Great trip onto the ice with a lady driver. The 4X4 bus onto the ice was an experience in its self. The driver, I think her name was Mel was full of knowledge about the glacier.Would recommend this trip.They cater for wheel chair passengers. Special lift at the back of the bus I saw lowering a wheel chair passenger onto the ice.Food and coffee a little pricey."
"It's a wonderful life experience to walk on the Glacier. Try one and you will never forget. Just make sure you prepare proper dress and shoes because even in the summer, it's still cold and wet there. I believe in winter may be another different look that we will go there again..."
"Second time of doing this, well worth the expense. Takes about 1 and a half hours all told. You travel on a tundra buggy which goes 12mph max and then get to walk on the ice. Bring your woollies - it's freezing."
"Stopped on way between Banff and Jasper. We arrived around 11am so the queues were small and we booked our Glacier tour for 12.30. By lunchtime the queues were very long. We had lunch in the cafe. Pre-made sandwiches and rather expensive but you are long way from the nearest town here!We booked the Glacier and Skywalk. You are given a time for the Glacier but can do the Skywalk at any time. The clerk booking our Glacier told us we were on the 12.30. Our tickets said 12.15 so be warned - check your ticket! as otherwise you might miss your slot.Just to stand on the glacier was a very neat experience. It is a bit slippery and you can't see the puddles so waterproof footwear is a good idea but people were wearing all sorts! It was a very hot day, but it is still cool on the glacier so take layers. You are only outside for about 15 mins. Having a bottle or cup to drink the water was a cool idea too. The special glacier bus driver was fun and informative and the drive involves a steep hill so sit at the front if you want the best views. Note - the coach from the Centre takes you to a carpark to meet the Glacier bus, so if you sit at the front, I'd imagine you'd be first off and so first onto the glacier bus and have your choice of seats.We enjoyed the Skywalk. Take the audio tour offered so you can wander at will and listen to information at each point. The views are lovely, the engineering impressive and the information educational. The buses run regularly and you just catch the next one from the centre or Skywalk. I'd allow 90 mins if you do this before your Glacier trip to make sure you are back for your timed trip. The whole thing is fairly well organised with one exception. Lots of people pre-pay their visit as part of a multi-attraction ticket. However from what we saw this did not give them a timed ticket. If you do that, you therefore need to see the desk to book your timed slot when you arrive. Some people had pre-booked their timed slot, but they still had to see the desk to collect the tickets as the email etc did not have a barcode. Many people queued for the bus only to be told they did not a booking for that bus - clearly each bus has a fixed number of seats but this happened a lot so obviously this needs to be explained in a better way. Big signs as you enter the building perhaps? We really enjoyed the whole experience. It was certainly a highlight and we have great memories and photos."
The icefield is large and quite full of tourists. A 6-wheel drive bus takes you up an incredibly steep hill (and back down) to the icefield. You can get out and walk on the icefield with all the otehr people on the bus. Some people were catching the meltin gglacier water and drinking it. There is a place to park and walk on the fields yourself without the tour company if you are so inclined to take a long walk. The ice is as deep as the Eiffel Tower is tall.
"This was a nice interesting visit to the Ice fields, the glacier and water are very nice, cool day :-)"
The trip out to Athabasca Glacier was scenic and interesting and our guide was entertaining. It was a thrill to stand on the ice and collect water to drink. Didn't enjoy the sky walk as much and felt it was not worth spending the money on.
We'll organised transfers to ice explorers and good friendly guides. Sky walk was disappointing. Did not live up to expectations
can't go to jasper without experiencing a trip onto a glacier! Amazing sight and worth every penny. The large ice vehicles take you down a 30% decline to enter the ice.....don't sit in front if you're a bit nervous.......and you get to walk on the glacier and get to experience something that few people can
I have been on a glacier before so it was not quite as exciting for me. However the whole experience is run very professionally and entertainingly. This attraction is very popular so expect crowds and book early. And wear warm clothing.
"It is God's most majestic nature verses man, and man oh man, are there a lot of them. The place reminds me of Disney World, but on top of the world. The crowds sucked the fun right out of the spot for me. So come early, don't make the mistake I did of showing up at noon."
"We did not go on the bus out to the field. We parked on the same side of the Icefields, in the upper parking lot and then walked to the lower parking lot just below the Icefield. Then continued up and to the base of the Icefield. Able to experience the expance of the field as well as seeing the points where it had been throughout the years, interesting and exercise too. It is a hike up so you do need to be in shape or take lots of breaks."
"We went on the Glacier Adventure. It was great to be able to walk on the glacier and hear about how it is formed. The tour seems a bit expensive. The Discovery Centre is very beautiful. We stood in line for the cafeteria, really wanting just a bowl of soup. Chicken noodle soup was $7+ so we went back down to our motorhome."
We took the bus out onto the icefield and enjoyed the commentary and then the 20 minutes wandering around the ice.....not cheap but we got the ticket as part of a discount deal from Brewster so not so expensive......would recommend to anyone looking to do something different if you don't come from a snowy country yourself.
They take you up to the glacier in a special bus. Good experience. We go every time we have company and we enjoy it every time.
"The very fact that a glacier is so close to the highway, you are automatically awestruck. In years gone by the public has been able to walk the rocky trail up onto the glacier and physically touch it with their own hands. On the occasion of my September 2014 visit, the Walkway is cordoned off to keep the public from falling into crevasses that have developed in the glacier, unfortunately we could not touch it or stand on it. Nevertheless, it is a sight to behold. There is an interpretive center with cafeteria, dining, gift shops, and tours available. From this spot you can take a bus to the walkway that goes out above the canyon, ride a huge machine onto the glacier, and some other touristy kinds of things, for a fee. Be aware that it is cold here year-round. You will need a warm jacket and slacks. Some people were wearing hats and mitts. You do not need winter boots unless it is winter.There is a driveway/pathway that leads from the highway to a parking lot where you can leave your car and then get out and walk The remainder of the journey up a craggy path to the base of the glacier. Without exaggeration it might be easily more than half a kilometer walk up. The air is very thin because you are so far above sea level at this point. It is not the easiest walk if you are not in good shape. There is no access for disabled and I think it would be very unwise to try and take a stroller on this path."
"1st dress warm, we were there last day of August and were in short sleet storm. We took tour from Jasper, very informative driver along the way. We had 4 people in our party. The bus was new and very comfortable. Once at ice fields there is a centralized building across s the street to park and later eat lunch. The tour bus takes you to an unloading area where you get on a monster tram to go out onto the glacier. Once on the glacier you are allowed to get out for pictures etc. Be sure to drink the glacial water, that is part of the amazingness. Now then the lunch. It was horrible, all 4 of us barely ate anything. It was an Asian buffet and everything was cold, stale, or just unidentifiable, again this was part of the package - if you drive there yourself, this is not a worry. If you tour, you may want to bring some food and drink."
Have done this numerous times and it is still amazing despite the recession of the glacier. Impressive to see the size of the glacier and imagining what it used to be like. With departures every half-hour the wait goes by fast despite the large number of people at the ice field centre. Definitely a must do while on the Icefield Parkway (hidden gem: Bring an empty water bottle to drink the ice cold glacier water)
Great place to visit and the guides are really fun as well as being extremely knowledgeable. It can be a bit packed but well worth it.
"Blue ice,very cold melt water and amazing views of glaciers and the encircling mountains. We got icefield trip ticket as a package with the skywalk and attractions in Banff. The guides/drivers on the bus and vehicle taking us up onto the glacier were knowledgeable and informative."
"This is the best place i went to in Canada, it was a bit of a journey but well worth it.I found it not too expensive to do the tour bus, they have a variety of package deals you can buy aswell. words cannot describe you have to go see it yourself!! i highly recommend this place.The tour bus takes you right into the mountains and the guy is fab at explaining information you feel truly satisfied with this visit, also be sure to take a bottle with you as there is a chance for you to try the purest water ever fresh running from the glacier, make sure you capture it when its in midflow!"
"Ensure you take the tour versus just viewing from car
The guides were fantastic and added history and knowledge of the glacier
Great stop"
"We chose not to pay for the shuttle bus and didn't regret it. Instead, we drove to the parking lot directly below a steep hike to the base of the glacier field. It is an interesting hike, but keep in mind you're some distance from the ""action"" and from a distance you can see people hiking on the glacier with the assistance of a guide. Truth be told, this was quite a bit lower on our list of destinations, but it is a must-see if you're traveling between Jasper and Banff."
Although the weather was a little rainy that day it didn't matter. It was spectacular. Buy the Ultimate Explorer Pass. It does save time and money.
"Perhaps due to the weather earlier in the day or the time of year, we didn't experience crowds. We enjoyed the snowcat experience and walking on the glacier. The staff was knowledgeable and helpful. This attraction can be bundled with others to reduce the overall cost."
"The Columbia Ice Field is so crowded that it is not a fun spot to be. The historic display was closed for construction, hundreds of people were in line for tickets to take the bus out onto the glacier and parking was definitely a problem. We hiked out to the toe of the glacier, as close as we were allowed to go and chose not to be herded onto 2 different buses for a huge sum of money to be driven onto the glacier for 10 minutes. The hike is OK but other hikes near glaciers were much more rewarding, for example the Edith Cavell Meadows hike which takes you to fabulous overlooks of the 'Angel Glacier' and Cavell Lake which has ice floating in it even in August."
Certainly worth the trip! bus takes you from lodge to edge of glacier; another snowcat bus takes you out on the the glacier. You get out and walk around and take pix.
"This is a must visit place in Jasper and Banff area. The ride to the top of the Glacier was unbelievable and walking on the Glacier was surreal. Being on top of a Glacier that is from Ice Age, cannot not put in words. The newly opened Glacier Skywalk was also interesting. A great engineering marvel."
We liked being able to walk on the glacier and learning about glaciers. This is very busy. Go early. We were there at 10 AM and had no trouble getting a place. Sunny days are better. Wear warm clothes and boots.
"We really enjoyed our trip to the ice field and just going on the explorer vehicles was an experience in itself! We bought a combined ticked to stand on the glacier and do the skywalk when we were in the area and enjoyed both, the skywalk was a particular treat as we hadn't expected much but really enjoyed it. Tip - take the free audio tour, it adds a lot to the experience"
"We were on an organised Brewster bus tour so we got in and up the ice field in no time. Arrive early which cuts down on the crowds which can be really annoying up the glacier when you are trying to get a photo. On a busy day, heads and hands are the likely photo outcomes. The tour guides are very knowledgable and the information is very relevant and interesting."
"For first timers, its great..Combo packs saves you some money but totally is a bit more costly - like almost every tourist attraction in Alberta.Facilities are good. well arranged..breath taking on top. ofcourse there are many other places more beautiful and also free..For families with young kids, this is the best option as it will be otherwise impossible to climb the icefield.Many people walk to the spot. is not much far from parking but will be difficult with kids.Overall, good for first time.. else not worth 50 bucks.."
"Be sure to buy online the combo packs for the Jasper Skywalk, Ice Fields and Banff Gonola for good savings. Great guides and the tour was fantastic. I would recommend going early, by the time we left in the early afternoon the line ups for the icefields and Jasper Skywalk (both leave from same place) were very long. The food (buffet and snackbar) are outrageously overprices ($17 for a bottle of Juice and Fruit cup) I recommend packing your lunch (cooler) and using the picnic tables."
"This was our 2nd trip to the glacier, the first one being in 2007 and this time we were with friends visiting from the UK.It is a stunning sight, but it is slowly disappearing, but not likely in my lifetime. It is very well run, and safe if you stay in bounds."
"It was well worth learning more about the different types of glacier and also the snowcoach that took us to the glacier. Beware though as the glacier are naturally wet, slippery and cold and there are many people jousting around to get the perfect picture."
"The ice fields are about 50 miles west of Banff, Canada. You can reach this by many tour buses or drive there yourself. You see much wildlife on the way. If you go in the summer plan on spending the good part of the day as it is very crowded. We had to wait three hours at the tour center to get a bus to the ice fields. They take you to the ice fields, there you transfer to specialized vehicle to ride to the ice fields. You get to spend about one half hour walking on the ice fields and then return to the tour center.. There is a restaurant there and a gift shop. A beautiful view of all the surrounding mountains and all the glaciers on the mountains. Make sure after you by your tour ticket you go to the next line to get a time for a bus to take you to the ice fileds."
We visited in winter so unfortunately weren't able to go on ice explorer vehicle which would have been cool. But still walked up near glacier which was a cool sight as we don't have anything like it back home in oz.
"Truely enjoyed the new Ski Walk, loved how it is designed and accomodating to elders, and young alike. Enjoyed the various stations, information and experience. Will go again.."
The vehicle that took us up to the ice field was the most interesting part of the trip. Lecture on the way up was interesting. Standing on a glacier is not as interesting as looking up at one.The whole shebang took about 30 minutes.
"Although your actual time on the glacier is limited and there are quite a few people there it is a really neat experience. How many people can say they've been atop an actual glacier? You don't realize what it's like until you get there. Their jumbo vehicles to transport you are part of the whole experience but don't sit near the back, diesel exhaust almost smoked us out. Also, dress warm, you'd think that would be obvious but some people were wearing sandals -- it is like another climate zone up there, wear proper shoes and have some warm layers."
Too commercial. The ride was okay but we spent very little time on the field itself. Queuing system very efficient
You are taken from the tour center on a bus to the bottom of the glacier. Transferred to a specialized vehicle to ride to the glacier. It was exciting to walk on the glacier. You are on a 650 foot deep glacier. Dress warm. Try a drink of the water. It' s good and very cold!
A truly unique place. Standing on a glacier after having been driven in a Icefield Explorer is a must do experience. Our driver was knowledgeable and humorous. We were on an organised Brewster tour. It is the best way to go otherwise you can cue for hours.
"We did enjoy the trip out onto the Glacier and it is an amazing ride in there big trucks. Very informative and plenty of photos were taken. The only down side was there were so many people there, very busy."
How often will you have the chance to walk on a glacier within a few minutes of getting out of your car? This is a really well run and interesting excursion that gives some sense of scale of the Columbia Icefield and Athabasca Glacier - as well as the impact of global warming in the extent the glacier has receded. Well worth it.
Although the outside temperature was warm on the glacier it definitely felt cold. The drivers of the buses were very informative. The whole trip lasted about 80 minutes and was well worth the money. We arrived early morning and only had a short wait to go on the glacier. About lunchtime the queues for tickets were very long.
You have to pay to physically stop foot on the glacier...don't even think u are going to hike up there on your own..there is NO WAY to get there on your own! When you get close on the bath it is roped off and there is a river/stream from the glacier run off that you can not cross. Way to commercialize a national wonder!! $50 per person..shame on you!!!
"It's a kick to go onto a glacier and we have done so before by helicopter. The problem with the set up at this place is that it is a huge tourist trap. When you get to the building with the staging area, you will probably find it overcrowded. You then have to wait a long time to take this bus literally across the street to another staging area to take a special glacier vehicle which takes an extremely long time going very slowly to go up the glacier. You end up spending way to much time to see one thing. And, after changing back from the glacier vehicle back to the bus to take you back, of course they deposit you in their gift shop."
This stop provides an excellent viewpoint of the ice field. It is a short uphill walk (if you want to see it for free).
Lines were too long and prices too high to make it worthwhile to take the bus trip. Maybe next time. The drive along the Columbia parkway between Jasper and Lake Louise was amazing!
"If you are travelling up the Ice field Parkway to or from Jasper , then you must do this.My tip would be arrive early and pre book to save a lot of queuing time but the trip is excellent, you get ferried to from the visitor centre to the Glacier buses and then taken up on one of the massive 30 Ton buses onto the glacier itself - you don't have long up there but to be on a Glacier and see it close up is a mind blowing experience.The walking tour is meant to be excellent but we didn't have time for that - maybe next time."
"A must do once, if visiting the Canadian Rockies. Very busy so morning best time to go. Ride a bus out to the glacier and then transfer to large ice mobile. A large glacier left from the ice age, but is naturally declining in size. Very cool and need a jacket for sure."
"If you do not get to the Mendenhall Glacier this will be the next best. Take a ride on their explorer to the glacier. Walk on the ice and maybe take a drink of pure water, also learn about the erosion of our glaciers."
"We did the free thing at this attraction - hiked up to the glacier ourselves. However, because we did not pay for the tour we did not get to trek on the actual glacier - but we were very close and had our breath taken away by it. Like all things in the Rockies, it is big, beautiful and gorgeous. It is sad to see how fast it is melting, though. Everyone had fun and it made for some great pictures!"
$50 is a lot but this is such a unique experience I figured it was worth it for the 80 minute drive out onto the glacier. The Ice bus itself was fun esp. going down a 30% grade. Get here early - we were the only group on the glacier. Later in the day there could be six or more buses out there. If I ever come back I'd try the walking tour on the glacier.
"We bought a ticket package for Banff Gondola, the ice field and the skywalk. I highly recommend all three attractions. If you book ahead you need to be allocated a time to go on the ice field so we got our time and went to the skywalk first - by shuttle bus. We then returned for the shuttle bus to take us to the ice field and transferred to the huge monster truck. Our guide was great a Japanese gentleman called Sami very informative and friendly and he took lovely pictures of us on the ice field. Take an empty water bottle with you then you can drink the glacier water"
"We walked up the glacier, in full winter gear and crampons, in the middle of the summer. It was cold, but also very cool. The guide was informative. The glacier itself was surreally beautiful, a plant-free sloping field of mini-ice-dunes riven with snow-melt streamlets, set between rocky bluffs and in the shadow of the looming glacier above. The sad part was the Global Warming piece: the glacier has markings indicating how quickly, and how far, the glacier has receded. This thing will disappear in our childrens' lifetime if we don't fix this!!!"
"I drove up to the Columbua Icefields to check out the Glacier Skywalk. As always, the drive is amazing but arriving at the Icefields, the parking lot was packed mid-afternoon and lines running all over. There seemed to be lack of direction on where things in the building are located and ticket agents allowed people to but in line. There was also only 1 till open in the cafeteria and a line 15 people long. Staff were good at cleaning up trays and the garbage. I noticed a cigarette smoke smell in the cafeteria and outside I saw the but out was only 1m from the door. Provincial law states you can't smoke within 5 metres of any door or window. The Skywalk itself was great. You take a city bus type shuttle up to the start and walk the path to the Skywalk. Lots of scuff marks are on the glass bottom already and all the metal looks rusted but the view of the waterfalls and down the valley is amazing. Back at the Icefields building we exit through the gift shop and come out in front of the building where I notice a drain spout taped together!Brewster has some great ideas in developing this tourist destination but it looks like they are ignoring the little things like basic maintenance. I look forward to next year when get reopen the gallery area, which will probably have an admission cost then."
"The walk up to the glacier is steep and rough, so know that before you walk up! It's very busy what with tons of people walking up the hill and onto the glacier. Just a head's up, YOU CAN'T WALK ON THE GLACIER unless you go on the tour bus. There are signs everywhere warning people to stay on the viewpoint, but people ignore them and just walk up. The signs are there for a reason people. A lake and river lie just below the surface, and the ice is weak from melting, so crevasses have opened and you have a chance of falling through! But people would go anyway, not only risking their lives, but the lives of their friends/family and those of the rescue workers. Please us caution. If you want to walk on the glacier, pay the money to do the bus tour. Otherwise the trail up is beautiful and to see the glacier from so close is simply amazing!!"
"The highlight of our tour through the Rockies. A great experience, wonderful drivers and staff. Driver Mike was interesting and easy to relate to. Seems safe, but at the same time exciting and like you are on a grand adventure."
"We stopped here on the way from Jasper to Banff. We did the Icefield Explorer and the Skywalk. Even though we were here at 10am, It was so busy that it took us a while to get tickets. When we finished, we wanted to have a bite to eat and coffee. The queue was so long that we just gave up."
"I have deliberated how many stars to give this review. The good stuff: walking on a glacier, and drinking glacial ice water, is an experience I never thought I'd have. The bus drivers gave us some interesting facts mixed with humor, and we were pleased we made the trip. However, the visitor/ticketing center was crazy busy, and we felt that $50 for 15 minutes on the glacier was overpriced. By the time you have got off the bus, you realistically have under 10 minutes to look around, which means that you have half an eye on your watch and so are not fully concentrating. As a result, I came off the glacier feeling a little disappointed. I would still recommend this trip, but just be prepared and try to sit at the front of the bus so that you can get off quickly!"
Right from the bus that takes you to the Ice Bus the fun starts. Drivers provide good information and humorous entertainment. You get just enough time on the glacier to take it in and enjoy it. When we went it was crazy busy but even so we felt the wait times weren't that bad and the glacier was not crowded.
"Busy. Long waits to get tickets. Got a $10 discount when got the Glacier adventure with Skywalk adventure. It was about 1.5 hour wait for our Glacier adventure, so we went on the Skywalk in between that time. Cold up in the glacier so obring some thicker jackets. Lovely scenery. A bit expensive for what you get, but a once in a lifetime experience."
"Definitely take this hike up to Parkers Ridge, even for non-hikers its a great pay off at the end. About 1-2 hours getting up, uphill obviously the majority of the way."
This is a new attraction and was quite busy. It offered a novel way to look over the canyon and the glass bottomed walk was not nearly as terrifying as we anticipated. You are not rushed through and can take your camera. You book at the ice fields centre and they bus you along when you're done you make your way back to the bus stop and are returned to the ice field centre
"If you want a real adventure, contact Ice Walks. We had an amazing 3 hours with our guide Sabina who, armed with her ice axe, took us on an 8k trek on the Athabasca Glacier. This was far preferable than going on the vehicles that go from the visitors centre every few minutes, poluting the atmosphere and degrading the glacier."
"Visited this with my family. It is best to go before 10:00 otherwise it is way too busy - full of tour buses. Very informative and beautiful to see. Was a bit surprised that basically all we get to see is limited to where the special buses park and you can walk around on the glacier parking lot. Of course this is done for safety reasons, but was a bit disappointing as I thought you'd get to explore it more. It was very cold there, despite it being a very warm day so be sure to bring warm clothes and also bring an empty water bottle (we forgot) so you can taste the amazing glacial water."
"Even though it cost $50 for about an hour of time, I was glad I did it. The glacier was neat to see with small waterfalls of ice cold glacier fed water."
"We took a day to drive from Jasper to Banff and loved every minute of it! We packed a lunch to save some money on the expensive restaurants, but the drive was completely worth the $20 park admission for the day. There is lots to see and do along the way, but we only stopped for photos (several times, mind you!) - if we'd had more time that day a walk through one of the many trails WO have been great, but even just the drive is a must-do when in Alberta."
"We went as part of a voucher from the Rocky Mountaineer. I am so glad it was included or else we might not have tried it. It was so amazing to stand on the glacier. The bus drivers were very knowledgeable and very wiling to answer questions. It is expensive but since we had the voucher we did not have to pay. We could have used a few more minutes on the glacier, but I know they have lines of people waiting to go. Bring an empty water bottle so you can fill it with glacier water-so cold and delicious."
"Definitely take the time to travel this highway, there are many stops along the highway, and so many photo opportunities!"
"Vacation on a budget. Enjoyed stopping at visitor center, but chose to drive to parking area & hike up to base of ice fields. Quite a hike up, not great for flat landers. Drive up to Jasper, rainy, so stopped on way back to Banff. Busy area, be prepared to hunt for parking."
You can take a buggy called the Brewster Ice Explorer to the ice field or hike it. Hiking is very rewarding and after the initial hill to climb is not hard.
"The start of the experience is a very busy and, on the day we were there, chaotic visitors centre. This consists of two eateries, ticket office and gift shop. From there you are marshalled onto coaches and travel to pick up the special isle coaches. These take 15 mins to get onto the glacier where you have 20 mins. There is commentary of sorts. Not a must do but quite fun."
Going to the top of a glacier and being able to walk around and take in the breathtaking views is unbelievable. This is a trip you have to do!
Very well organized transport to the glacier and excellent commentary for a unique experience. The tours depart on time and make trip well worthwhile.
We rode our motorcycles all the way to Alaska and have to say that the Columbia Ice Fields and the whole Ice Fields Parkway was some of the best and most dramatic scenery we saw on the whole trip. I truly believe this is some of the best that Canada has to offer.
"While we thought the views of the glaciers from the ""vistors center"" were outstanding, we were very disappointed that the center was not an interpretive center, but was strictly a very large gift shop and the place to purchase tickets to the ""glacier walk"" and ""sky walk"". It would have so much nicer to have information on the Columbia Icefield which was hidden behind the glaciers and which is rich in geological significance."
"We made a day trip from Canmore. It was a 2 1/2 hr drive one way. The view on the way there was breathtaking. We only saw 1 bighorn sheep for wildlife but the rest of the view was breathtaking. If you go, get there early and it helps to have pre-paid passes. A piece of advice given to us and we are grateful we had it. Once in the building with a pre paid pass you can go right to the back and get in line to book your time. ( this takes 10-15 minutes) rather than 60-70 minutes. The bus ride up is educational and fun. The Ice Commander ride was fantastic. I took a light jacket and did wear it since it was cool on the Glacier. Even though it was a very warm sunny day. We had our 16 year old daughter with us and she even said it was a fantastic time. There also are hiking trails and lots of information around the area. What a great Place to go. If you are planning to eat there. Do not be surprised by the prices. They have a nice restaurant 21.95 per person for the Buffett and in the fast food line up a burger and fries are 13 dollarish they also have numerous Chinese style food which is around the same price. So if you are on a budget pack a lunch. It is good food is you do eat there."
"We had a beautiful sunny day on the icefield. The trip on the special vehicle (snow-coach) was very funny and the walking on the ice very impressive. A little too long the wait for leaving, but the experience is ""a must"" when you travel in Jasper Park : do not miss it."
"So interesting about the vehicle that takes you up to the ice field.
Once on the ice, (wear a jacket) you can drink the water straight from the melting ice."
Completely recommend this trip. Guides Dave and Eric were excellent. ask Eric to sing his rendition of Queens Bohemian Rhapsody. He was awesome!!
Visited the visitors centre where we were treated to a surprise Chinese style buffet. Before being transported to the glacier explorer buses for the short 15 ride up the glacier. Were allowed 20 minutes to wander around the glacier which is melting at an alarming rate. Couldn't help thing that the thousands of visitors per day plus the huge vehicles that go over it must be contributing to the increasing melt.
What an amazing place to see. And they say it will all be melted away in another 70 years or so. A must see before it disappears. Great drivers. Great views.
"The Icefields Center (and its associated activites) has become a big business, and can be a crowded nightmare if you do not have a gameplan in advance. If you just want to view the glacier, or walk out to it, no problem. But if you want to do any of the activities, I would strongly suggest setting them up in advance. We chose to do the small group Icewalk tour (wonderful!), rather then ride a gigantic vechicle down a long, steep road onto the ice for a few minutes, or take a crowded bus to walk out on a man-made platform (that looks like it belongs in an amusement park, not a national park!) We stayed in the hotel -3rd floor of Icefields Center- the night before our Icewalk. (A splurge for sure, but we ate p & j sandwiches!) It was delightfully quiet without the hoards of tourists, but during the day, you could hardly walk through the 1st floor with all the tour groups and people waiting in line for tickets. So save yourself a lot of time and aggravation, choose and book your activities ahead of time, if you can."
"I share the review of Connie D below. A highly questionable commercialisation of these glaciers, especially when you consider the vulnerable state the glaciers are in nowadays. Hence, we didn't take the ride up the glacier, but did visit the Skywalk."
"We visited here on a very warm day. It was comfortable on the ice field with a jacket. Remember to bring a jacket so you can enjoy your brief visit on the glacier. There are many markers showing where the glacier was many years ago. I do feel that all the visitors and the ice vehicles both do contribute to the melting of this glacier. In spite of this, it was a very interesting trip, worth the money?? You will have to decide for yourself. If you go, you will want a jacket. If it's a cold and rainy day, dress even warmer, you are going to an ice field after all."
"11-year old reaction:""This one is a must-see! If you go, bring an empty water bottle because on the glacier you can fill up wih cold, delicious natural glacier water!Walk on 1000 feet of ice while looking at the gorgeous view - and maybe pelt your brother with a snowball or two!"""
It's interesting to see the signs of where the glacier actually was through the years and see how it has melted back. The visitor center really has nothing except for selling tickets for the skywalk and vehicle that takes you where you can walk on the glacier. That was very disappointing for a visitor center but it was worth the stop for a restroom with running water:) There is a restaurant above the center but we did not eat there.
"We intended to do the tour up onto the icefields, but once we got there, the idea of riding a machine onto the ancient ice wasn't something we felt good about doing. Lots and lots of tourists at the centre, shoulder to shoulder. After traveling the parkway and seeing the incredible natural wonders, we were disappointed at the commercialism of the Columbia Ice Fields."
"Right from the start from boarding the bus that goes to where the Ice Bus is that goes to the Glacier there is a sense of thrill.What sheer beauty on the Athabasca Glacier formed from sedentary rock. Ice blue crystal clear water that is so pure to drink & taste & very refreshing. Ice blue, darker blue & white ice & water are crisp.Walking over the area is an experience to remember.This is just one of 8 glaciers in the Columbia Icefields that cover 325 square metres.This Icefield is very important for the Northern Hemisphere water supply as it feeds all 3 Oceans-- Atlantic, Pacific & Arctic."
"What a beautiful place! It was unlike anything I've seen or experienced. Driving through this area was one of the highlights of my life, I loved it that much."
The stars of this visit are the buses that go on the gletsjer and the way they move and go over it is really something. The visit itself is interesting if you have never been on a gletsjer. Good tour guides.
"Arrived at the Ice fields around 1:30 PM Circled the parking lots for about 20 minutes to park.About 1:50 PM I then lined up to get 4 25 $ tickets for the walk.Got the tickets at 2:35 ( 45 minutes in line)We then decided to go for lunch,waited 30 minutes in line.4 burgers and 2 orders of poutine 60 $.We then lined up to take the 6 K bus ride to the walk.Spent 20 minutes on the ""walk"".The lined up to get the bus back.We were supposed to meet some there could not reach them,there is no cell coverage or any pay phones.It was quite unique but I will not go back for a long long time."
"Having driven for hours and viewing Alpine trees, mountains, rocks and lakes. This was a good change especially cool air and fresh water from the glacier. Bring a bottle to drink of the clear, refreshing water from the melting glacier especially in Summer."
"To see the amount the glacier has receded in the past 50 years was a humbling reminder of climate change..
Beautiful walk about the bottom to see the well marked, yearly measurements."
"We didn't top at the visitor centre we went straight to the car park near to the Glacier. There is a bit of a walk (10 minutes) from the car park and uphill and being at altitude it could affect some people. It also got cold even on a sunny day so make sure you have your layered clothing sorted and ready.The Glacier was big and so were the views, a unique experience"
They keep the people moving quite well....very well organized but plan on being there a few hours especially if you are going to do the skywalk as well. Would recommend doing both....better price if bought together. It was fascinating walking on a glacier....would highly recommend!
We liked the view from far away but did not take the bus up to the glacier. Too crowded. If you want to take the bus to the glacier make sure and get there early. Lines get long later in the day.
"A tourist trap for sure, bus after bus loads of people. We were disappointed after seeing the glaciers in Alaska."
"Well, if you pay 210 (!) CAD for a bus ride that brings to a 20 minute walk on a small ice field with not much to do or to see (you see nothing of the icefields above), how would you feel? Avoid at all costs."
"If you go from Jasper to Banff it´s a good stop. The prize for getting on the glacier with the special trucks is ok if you buy it in combination with the banff gondola. You can call it a tourist fake but at it´s really beautiful up there. You don´t have to go up there, but if you have the time it doesn´t hurt.Don´t go to the restaurant or cafe..."
"This is definitely a ""tourist attraction"" but still worth doing. My boyfriend and I decided to do this on our recent trip to Banff. We are from California, so the idea of walking on a glacier was one we couldn't pass up. I recommend driving your own car there if you can. The Icefield Parkway is a beautiful drive and it was nice to have the freedom to stop along the way. Once you arrive at the visitor center there is a line to buy your tickets for the next available bus. We went on a busy day and waited about an hour for the next available tour. You might be able to avoid that by buying ahead of time but we didn't. Skip the cafeteria unless you are starving, it was way too busy.Once your bus is ready you take a short ride to the edge of the glacier, then transfer to the ice vehicle. Our driver/guide was fun and I actually learned quite a bit on the drive over. Walking on the glacier was really cool. In mid-July I wore shorts, a light jacket and hiking boots (tennis shoes would be fine too). Don't forget to bring a water bottle to fill up with the glacier water! This is an attraction that people of all ages can enjoy. If you live in cold weather climates this might be less than thrilling but if you are visiting the area and haven't seen or been near glaciers this is a great activity."
"We travelled from Jasper to Lake Louise via the Ice fields parkway. This was a tour organised by Brewster and was very good. It was a full day tour and was excellent value for Money. Our driver Clayton was very informative and showed us extra sights on the way. We visited the Athabasca falls on route and then reached the Athabasca glacier. It is a beautiful place to visit and going on the buses on the glacier is an experience in itself. We also visited the Glacier Skywalk, which only opened in May. This gave amazing views over the Sunwapta Canyon. After this we returned to the base of the glacier for a buffet lunch that was organised by the tour company. The food was great and very well organised. After this we stopped for photo opportunities at the Weeping Wall and Peyto Lake. All in all an exceptional day."
"we did the Icefields Explorer adventure, where you go out on specially equipped vehicles to actually walk on the glacier"
"Make sure you get tickets in advance or take this tour with a travel tour. This glacier trip is beautiful. You get to walk on a glacier and see the flow of melting ice in the summer. Lunch at this tourist attraction can be crowded. Go with a tour group that organizes your time. The lunch is tasty for a tourist trap. If you show up alone in your car, you will stand in line for everything - don't do it."
"We really enjoyed the tour, even though there were a lot of people there. Things were well organized and we didn't wait too long before boarding the bus. The ride to the glacier was breathtaking. The experience of walking on the glacier is one that we won't forget. The guide was very informative. Wear warm clothes- its really cold even in the summer."
"We drive up to the glacier and walked to the edge, which was good to see but the glacier wasn't as impressive or pretty as I had imagined. (It has receded a lot over the years and had a murky black tinge) We decided against queuing up for hours to have a ride onto the glacier as was quite expensive and we felt we had seen enough of the glacier without doing this."
"Once you fight your way through the crowds of tourists,stand in line for an overpriced tickets, you stand in line to get on a bus which takes you across the the highway to the bottom of the glacier.you board an impressive ice crawler that whisks you as far up the glacier as you can go.we were disappointed that you couldn't venture any further up the glacier.It extremely sad to see how much the glacier has receded .i would have loved to see it 30 or 40 years ago.Make sure you bring a water bottle as you can drink the fresh,icy cold glacier water."
"GENERAL: This was voted the top activity of our family (11 of us ranging from 11 to 72). This gets very crowded - we were glad we got there relatively early (11am) AND bought our tickets ahead of time. When we left at 12:30, the parking lot was full and the line for tickets was about 50 people long. THE TOUR: You board a bus at the center which takes you to the transfer point where you board the ice explorer. We saw a big-horned ram on the way. Once on the explorer it is a 15 min trip to the glacier - at one point driving on a 32 degree incline. Once on the glacier, you must stay on a plowed section, but you get nice views of the glacier, can fill your water bottles with glacier water, take pictures etc. before heading back down.TIPS:Bring along a bottle to sample the water. Take a jacket - it is much cooler on the glacier and the weather can be unpredictable (it snowed in August in 2003 by report). If you purchased your tickets online, bypass the ticket counter nearest to the parking lot and continue to the desk near the entry to the glacier adventure to get assigned a time. You need to be in line 10 mins before your tour."
"A very commercialized, busy spot. I would highly recommend pre-purchasing tickets if you want to do the glacier adventure to save yourself some serious queues. The discovery center was very busy, as were the bus trips to the glacier. But things were well organized and the glacier itself was amazing, worth the wait. Give the skywalk a miss though- you can only just see the glacier and it was so crowded."
Very commercialised at the car park. Brewsters tours take you up on the Glacier in these mammoth vehicles with excellent tour guides. Awesome.
"Ride down a terrifyingly steep ice hill in giant jeep-like moon vehicle to reach the glacier. Once there, feel the heat of a dozen idling moon vehicles as they collectively accelerate the glacier's demise. Watch tourists ignore safety instructions and prance about ice cravasses. Better to view the glaciers from the road, in our opinion."
"Part 1: Queuing up to get onto the glacier tour bus (that takes you to a six wheeled super-bus that drives onto the glacier) was like taking part in some farcical play with 300 other actors. Far too many people inside the building and after buying our tickets there was no other organisation apart from being told to stand in line. Tickets were timed, but later timed people were standing in front of earlier times, and on 3 occasions, confused visitors asked us where they would line up. Eventually, when we got to the front of the line, things improved and someone appeared to manage the throng of visitors.Part 2: Once we got onto the bus, things improved dramatically. The commentary from our driver was amusing and informative, and the kids really loved both the ride and getting to walk around on the ice. If you're fortunate enough to have visited any other glaciers in the world (e.g. New Zealand, Norway etc) this might be less of a novelty, but I still really enjoyed the trip, and was glad that our family could see this wonderful place."
"Going for a walk up the ice field can be somewhat of a challenge if a person is not used to it, so we took the huge transport vehicles. That is an adventure in itself! Make sure that you drink some water from the glacier once you get to the top."
"My family loved taking the bus up to the glacier and walking on the ice. I felt trapped and disliked the entire scene. I would have preferred to drive up to car park and walking 20 minutes to get up to the toe of the glacier for a look. There is a tour that takes you walking on the glacier but I believe that requires at least 3-4 hours.$49 is an awful lot to pay for the bus trip. It took an hour to wait for our turn, then 10 min bus transfer, 20 min trip up, 20 min on the ice to take photos, 20 minutes back to Ice Center. Guides are lovely, but the whole things feels like an opportunistic way for Parks Dept to wring as much money from a natural wonder as possible. Food at the center is crummy and outrageously expensive. Buses empty out hordes of tourist groups and the center is wall-to-wall tourists. Horrible anti-Banff experience. You want to see an amazing glacier? Hike up Edith Cavell and gawk at the receding glacier there. Donate your $49 to an environmental group instead. :-)"
"The glacier adventure tour up to the Athabasca glacier was well organized - and the glacier itself was serene and beautiful. Got to taste a bit of the icy cold water. Definitely a bucket list place in the world. Weather changes quickly in the mountains. It was raining when we left for the glacier from Golden at 6am, but when we got there at 8, it was all blue skies and beautiful. Had breakfast there - good variety. Nearby is the glass bridge - a nice addition to the overall experience."
What an amazing experience to be standing on a glacier. The trip up to the glacier was just as exciting...our tour guide was very informative and friendly. We even had an opportunity to drink fresh water from the glacier!
When else will you have the opportunity to walk on a glacier? it was a very interesting and cool experience. Well worth the money.
"Amazing scenery and even if one is used to skiing and visit resorts near glaciers, this was a great experience.
The journey on the Ice Explorer was thrilling."
"For now, this glacier is receding so there may come a time when you would have to ride a tram to stand on it. For now, you can take the ice mobiles with their $5,000 dollars each treaded wheels onto the tongue of the glacier. Be prepared to ride over and down the steep pile of moraine to get to the glacier. I've been here twice. Once after hours when the ride was closed (haunting beauty really with not a soul in sight early June) and I returned a few years later in mid July to actually walk on the glacier. It was 80 degrees out but on the glacier it was snowing. The ice is precarious so be cautious walking on it. I wore hiking boots and a poncho My 78 year companion had her walking sticks but without the ice pick tip, you have to rely on your own balance. I will never forget the way the wind blew down across the glacier. You see the blue ice which is years of compressed snow. It is one thing to see the glaciers from below and quite another to stand on one and to realize how mammoth they are and how small one feels in comparison. The visitor center is a madhouse but don't let that stop you from giving yourself this perspective if you have an adventurous bone in your body. I didn't do the skywalk as glass walkways aren't for me. I do think that the Parkway is just stunning between the Athabasca Glacier and Jasper. I gave it a ""very good"" because it is not for everybody. (Many older people on our tour walked onto the glacier and quickly turned back onto the ice mobile.) If I was younger and it was a blue sky day, I would definitely consider doing the more in depth ice walk. On the Ice explorer, to just walk briefly on the glacier, it's about $50.00 and if you've made it this far to the Icefields, why not go all the way? Not for little children."
This was a very interesting trip which our commentator had a great knowledge about. It was very well organised
The Skywalk attraction was fun and very informative. We went around 4:30 and it wasn't busy. You are given a headset audio tour upon arriving at the attraction. It is up to you how much information you listen to or if you listen to it at all. I found it very informative!!They also have written information at various points for you to read about animals found in the area and the construction of the Skywalk and a few interactive exhibits. We saw 2 mountain goats when we there which would have been impossible to see if we were not on the Skywalk. The Skywalk enables you to truly experience a look from the top down! It is a beautiful way to experience the scenery. Have fun and enjoy the view!!!!
"Well organized, and spectacular views once you get onto the glacier. Definitely need sunglasses on a bright day as it's almost blinding! The staff are informative and amusing, but I wouldn't bother with the food in the restaurant, not so cheap and not so nice! Apart from that, a once in a lifetime experience that will never be forgotten!"
We visited this site for the first time. It was quite the experience. Ge there early to avoid the crowds and buy your ticket online to avoid the line ups.
"The Icefield was amazing, and worth every penny, the skywalk was also good with great views,if you could see them. The centre was atrocious it was so disorganised too many queues in a small place to cope with so many visitors. The Skywalk was too crowded to appreciate the views properly need to limit the amount of people on it."
We did both the Icefield ride onto the glacier and the newly opened Skywalk. Both were well worth the price of admission. The skywalk has an informative audio tour that was included in the price.
"We have experienced the bus ride on the glacier on our past two trips. This time we chose the new Skywalk. First of all it's a trust thing to walk on glass, then you get as much time as you might take for photos. Then just enjoy the time and gaze the scenery!"
"The centre is very busy and crowded, so would recommend getting there early if possible, if you want to book a tour. We were turned off by the queues.But did do a walk near the glacier as well as to Parker Ridge - the latter was sensational!"
We did the icefield tour last year and it was amazing!! We had to go back to try the Skywalk this year. It is an amazing set-up!! I still prefer the Icefield tour and walking on the glacier. But the skywalk is spectacular in its own way. Both are worth doing
We ended up parking and walking up to the ice fields on our own. We found the tour on the large bus so packed and there were too many tourists. The line at the place to buy the tickets was so long that it turned us off. There are bus loads of tourists all waiting to go on the ice field buses and the sky walk. It did not look very tranquil. We did see a small outfit walking people out to the ice fields with crampons to put on their feet. I think this tour would have been more rewarding to do than getting on the bus with a hundred other tourists and being bused up to the ice. We had a good time just walking it ourselves and it was free.
"This will be a highlight for anyone who enjoys the open road, natural wildlife and the thrill of being in one of the most beautiful places on earth. Idyllic and you will not regret a visit and drive through...the foliage itself and mountains makes for a relaxing and inspiring drive:)"
"Some of the best shots I took was driving into the valley. We just did the free walk up to the overlook, dress warm, even in Summer there was a freezing wind!"
Large crowds could be a deterrent but walking on a glacier was a once in a lifetime experience. I was on a Brewster Tour so it was orderly and not a long wait. The ice is treacherous so be careful. A woman in our group fell but was not injured.
The whole trip on the Ice Field Parkway was awesome! Saw many glaciers along the way but the big thrill was getting to walk on the glacier. Very nice setup for visitors to enjoy. It was cold up there so bring a jacket and hat and gloves.
Is very interesting to see how far it has receded in the past hundred years. I have been there three times since 1974 and it is amazing how far it has receded in just that time.Not a place to take small children that can not climb hills.
We took the glacier tour and it was great. We got an Aussie gal driving our big ol' glacial bus and she was hysterical. You have about fifteen minutes walking on the glacier and that is fine. You can taste the glacial water streaming by if you wish. We really enjoyed the trip.
"This is a great trip for anyone travelling between Jasper and Lake Louise on the Ice Field Parkway. Visitors are taken by coach to the base of Athabasca glacier and transferred onto a 6 wheel drive vehicle that climbs onto the glacier. Visitors can then walk around the glacier for about 15 minutes and enjoy the fantastic scenery. If you can, try and go on the 6 wheel vehicle driven by the retired Japanese accountant - great sense of humour."
This is one of the great wonders of the world. Snow and Ice that go on for miles and incredible mountain views all around. The glacier tour is well worth doing - once. Skip the new Glacier Skywalk - it should never have been allowed.
"It was a great few hours spent here, the only thing is it will only be around 20 years before they disappear. Well organized."
Interesting walk to the glacier but not fully accessible without a paid guide; parking can be a challenge
We really enjoyed visiting the Columbia Ice field. There was a bit of a walk up hill against the wind but not too difficult. It was a really neat feeling to be near a glacier that is millions of years old. It is right off the highway so not out of the way. There is lots of parking. It was a great sight to see and easy to get to. It's also free. Would recommend it.
Awesome view of the mountains from standing over the edge on a glass balcony.Just don't look down if you are afraid of heights.
Reviews are correct in saying that is is brilliant to be able to walk on this amazing glacier but we have only scored 4 as it is highly commercialised and the approach of our snow vehicle driver was more that of a game show host than someone who wanted to tell you some pretty serious things about significant ice melt. We went as part of a Brewsters coach tour from Banff to Jasper and our coach driver was outstanding compared to the young lad doing the Icefield trip. It was a lovely day when we went and almost any shoes such as trainers would have been ok. We were encouraged to taste some of the water from melting ice which is very unpolluted and clear. Take a bottle or cup with you. The trip is pretty short but worth it. We would just have appreciated a bit more geography/geology/science info. This should be so much more than a photo op.
"For those who are complaining of the price is crazy... considering the experience and information you receive is amazing. Worth every CANADIAN dollar ! Drivers are informative, friendly, and helpful... the Glacier experience was fantastic. Take an empty container with you to fill with the Glacier Water. If you do the Skywalk.. NOTE you must take the bus up and it's free... you are only paying for the Skywalk adventure. They have free parking at the main centre and it is an 8 minute ride to the Skywalk and you are there on NO TIME FRAME; unlike other Skywalks have... at your own leisure & pace. Catch the Bus back when you are ready. This is a MUST TO DO !! You can see a Mountain Goat on the Mountain if lucky, we were. Line ups can happen on weeekends but that is at any attraction or tour you go to, and they accomadate the best they can. Very apologetic and the staff are helpful. Taking the family again... no question !! ~;0)"
"We picked a wickedly cold and rainy day to visit the Columbia Ice Field. We were the first group to go up the glacier, so we had the place to ourselves for the ten minutes that we spent up on the ice slope. Our driver was called Eric. He was a real hoot, cracking jokes and spinning yarns for most of the way. He also shared a lot of useful information with us on the way up and down.The price is a little steep (for a family of four), but it was a unique experience and I'm glad we did it - even if the weather was really miserable..."
"Had a great time walking on the Glacier. Bring an empty water bottle, and fill it with the melted snow ! My husband isn't a water drinker, but enjoyed the glacier water. Take a jacket, got a little cold. Enjoyable."
"My husband, son and myself visited the ice fields, they were great, very cold, icy, white and beautiful."
This is an marvelous trip to walk on a Glacier in complete comfort and without a great deal of physical exertion. This is a good trip for Seniors that want to experience the Glacier up close and personal. The color of the ice is remarkable and the surrounding area is breath taking. You can not get on to a Glacier any easier than this trip. The transportation is comfortable and the trip is well worth the effort.
"My friend and I grabbed the Ultimate Explorer package from Brewster which included the icefields, new skywalk attraction, lake cruise, and the gondola up Sulphur Mountain. Due to bushfires, we were advised by Brewster to first see if we would be able to get up the highway before purchasing tickets. Fortunately, for the forest and its residents, the fires were well contained by the time we were headed up and we got through no problem. We arrived quite early, around 9am and I would definitely recommend this time for independent travellers. We were shuttled to the ice explorer station within half an hour of arriving at the information centre.Despite miserable weather, our ice explorer driver was in good spirits and kept us entertained with stories while he drove us onto the glacier. It was wet and cold on the glacier (who would have guessed... ;) ) but the view was worth it. We had a quick sip of the incredibly refreshing glacier water and spent some time taking in the view. I would recommend taking some quick snaps and then putting your camera away and just enjoy the experience. At $109.95 (plus tax), we were very pleased with the ultimate explorer package and our glacier experience.Tip for travellers: the food at the information centre can be very expensive, so pack a small picnic to enjoy after your icefields visit. There are a number of wonderful places to picnic just a couple kms past the icefields in the direction of Jasper.Reminder for independent travellers: the earlier you can get to the information centre the better. We were staying in Banff and left at 6:30am (mostly due to the bushfire threat). We were very glad that we arrived early as the lines were absolutely crazy after about 1030-11 am."
This is great. Visiting the icefields in the snowmobile is awesome. Wear warm clothes and good shoes-it's cold and slippery. The staff are knowledgeable.
We went with our daughter and her family. Everyone thought that it was a unique experience that was well worth the cost. Our driver was informative and entertaining which made the experience even more enjoyable
"Our tour bus arrived at the Ice Field Centre where we loaded onto a second bus. The amount of glacier melt in the past 100 years due to climate change here is mind blowing! The Ice Field is surrounded by numerous glaciers. Being driven in the Glacier Buggies onto the main ice field is a ride to remember, as the ""road surface"" is constantly changing. We were let out onto the ice fields themselves to explore within the roped off areas. Drinking free flowing glacier water that had been previously frozen for thousands of years is an amazing experience. Pictures in front of the Canadian flag that had been placed in front of the main free flowing glacier stream next to people from all over the world was awe-inspiring. Yes, this is an expensive tour! However, it is a once in a lifetime trip to a vanishing glacier. Once it's gone, it's not coming back! Well worth the cost in scenic beauty alone."
"Even as a Canadian who gets sick of snow and ice during the winter, the Glacier Adventure tour was interesting, although our driver thought he was a comedian but definitely wasn't. I didn't do the new Glacier Skywalk but my boyfriend did and I would recommend it to anyone who doesn't get vertigo like me! The Glacier Skywalk takes about an hour but I believe there are frequent departures. The Glacier Adventure took nearly 90 minutes. Definitely make sure you wear warm clothes. I couldn't believe how many people were wearing shorts and flip flops. The snocoach is warm enough, but it's cold on the glacier. (You're standing on ICE, people!) There were also other things to do at the Icefield Centre (afterwards someone asked if I'd seen the movie but I don't remember noticing one), so plan to stay at least 3 hours if you want to take advantage of everything.The facilities were mostly good, but I have to say I was dismayed by how many bathrooms were out of service. For the prices they charge, you'd think they could hire a plumber now and again.Since it's a 90-minute drive from Jasper, I'd suggest stopping on the way in or out if you are driving from Calgary, Banff, or Lake Louise."
"Supposed to be largest glacier below polar circle. Impressive, but there are others, which are also very nice and less frequented. Brewster busses can bring you and some 50 others on the glacier, but WE drove to the bottom of the glacier and had a 10min walk to the base of it. Also very nice view and free! OK, you cannot walk on the glacier from here, but you can see where it was in the 19th century (signs show when and where). Impressive degradation!!!"
"Touring the Columbia Ice Field is not for the faint of pocketbook. Prior to getting into line, it is worth researching your purchase options, as there are 12 for each person in your group (a family of 3 has 36 possible combinations). This resulted in a 55-60 minute wait at the ticket desk, before waiting in lines elsewhere on the voyage. The full package (Skywalk, Banff Lake Cruise, Banff sky tram, and the Icefield) is the cheapest as long as you plan to do three of the four events. Once your tickets are purchased, there is a place for lunch upstairs, which can often serve lunch or a snack inside the wait time people have before they board their buses. Once on the buses, there is no rest facilities available, so one should use the tiolet just before boarding. You take one regular bus to the drop off point where you take the Glacier coach onto the glacier. You spend approximately 10 min on the glacier before returning by the same shuttle schedule. Total round-trip time is around 90 minutes.For the faint of heart, the glacial coach (the one with the big wheels) does drive you down a 32 percent grade incline onto the glacier. There are two degrees of safety involved, as the buses are certified to not tip over unless the road reaches a 35 percent grade. The steepness of this section is eyeopening. Once out on the glacier, you stand on 770 feet of ice (when we visited 12 years ago it was over 1000 feet), and you are able to capture and witness some of the glacial melt. The water on the glacier is potable and is suitable for drinking. The last time that ice saw atmospheric contaminants was around 20,000 years ago, so it is likely more pure than anything available anywhere else. The trip is entertaining. Good guides help you learn and get something out of the trip. Note to visitors: Only an imbecile wears open-toed shoes when climbing onto a slab of ice 770 feet thick. Your feet will tread through a slush layer on top, the ice is cold (around 0 degrees), and the air temperature on the glacier is about 10 Celsius degrees below that at the visitor center..or about 20 Fahrenheit degrees. Jackets or other outwear are appropriate. Snowball fights do break out. Be ready, and enjoy. Bottom line -- a waiting line that moved glacially (while in theme) was irksome enough and caused serious overcrowding in the visitors' building to make this less than a 5-star experience. The Glacier is worth seeing, however."
"It was worth it to actually step out on a glacier and experience one up close. The ride consists of two bus rides, one short one from the center to the base of the glacier and the main event in the huge Glacier Bus. The drivers are all practicing stand up comics but they are extremely informative at the same time. The actual part you explore is very groomed daily so it's very slushy so flip flops are not a good idea. The tour make you pause and think about our environment."
"We are so lucky!, with the global warming we are helping to generate, we are very fortunate to see what the bottom of a glacier looks like. Columbia ice field is going fast. I’ve been there 6 years ago and last weekend. The melting rate is scary."
"In contrast to most of the lush green hikes in Jasper, the hike to the bottom of the ice fields feels like walking on another planet. The gravel that has been left by the receding glacier has almost no vegetation growing on it. Creative visitors have taken the opportunity to compensate for this lack of landscape by creating hundreds of rock cairns in every possible configuration. This creates a unique photo opportunity. Take the time to build cairn of your own. The hike is easy and will take 30 minutes to an hour."
"If you drive through this place and dont go out on to the Ice Field, you are an absolute idiot. It is a highlight of the trip. We loved it."
"You drive on to the ice field in a large bus specially designed for ice/snow travel.You have approx.15 min.walking around. Yes you are physically on the ice field, however at $50+tax US p.p. you have to consider value for money as you may see LOTS of glaciers in your travels."
"We took the Ice Field route from Jasper to Lake Louise which was breathtaking. We were blessed with wonderful weather and every bend in the road produced yet more spectacular scenery with snow capped mountains, glaciers and beautiful lakes."
If this attraction had not been part of the bus tour we were taking from Banff to Jasper I'm certain we would not have included this attraction. Who knew standing around on a hunk of ice could be so much fun. My husband loved riding on and inspecting the unique machines that could transport and navigate crazy inclines to get us there and I loved filling my water bottle from the cold clean glacier stream. The whole adventure was one I'm glad I got to experience.
"I thought the only way you could touch the glacier was paying for the bus. We were thinking of doing this, but short on time, and the visitor center looked like a zoo. When I realized you can park across the street for free and walk up to them in about 45 minutes, for me this was a better option. I enjoyed the walk. It is steep and a dirt path with rocks around, so may not be suitable for all. I enjoyed the cool air and walking."
Learn all about the ice fields in the magnificent ice filed centre and then take a chilly hike to the edge of the icefield. Would love to take the motor coach one day but usually have the family dog with us.
We really enjoyed going here and walking on a glacier. We got to drink glacial water as well and it was a really neat experience. BUT you are only on the glaciar for about 15 minutes and it felt very rushed. I think it is a bit pricey for the amount of time you get.
"Have been on the Icefield Parkway many times but never walked on the glacier, wish we had done it before, what an amazing experience!"
The line was long for this tour but great experience and well organized. Don't forget to bring a water bottle to fill with glacier water!
"We walked on a glacier, drank pure glacier water and were in awe of the beauty around us. The Ice Explorer at the Icefield Center was very much a great part of our trip!!"
Another must see. But get there EARLY. The hordes show up around noon and the long gets long. Get there at 10 or 11 and you'll get a ticket and grab the next bus. Pretty fascinating ride just in the bus and the actual icefield is well worth it. Best value is the icefield bus tour/transparent platform combo. Do the bus tour first.
"Don't dread the cold, it was freezing cold where we parked at the ticket counter, but once inside it was comfortable. Very well planned. Buses leave at the specific time intervals and on the Glacier it was not windy so was just marvelous. It was snowing lightly so we had a wonderful experience. Back to the Information center onto another bus for the Sky walk another marvel. And the Restaurant had lots of variety for us to choose from."
This is a sad but also a majestic sight. The glaciers are disappearing at such a rate that our children's children may not see them at all? it is a bit disturbing seeing passenger coaches driving over the glacier itself. Aren't we doing enough damage to our environment without this?
"Charming Japanese driver, in the ""best bus"". Kept us all entertained and engaged on this dramatic trip onto the Columba Icefields. It is very beautiful and should not be missed. He helped with photos too. A credit to the Brewtster company which run this tour."
"We arrived early and caught the snowmobile straight up to the glacier. Was wonderful to see and guide/driver was an aussie girl who was very friendly. By lunchtime the place was ""chokkers""."
"We pre booked tix for the glacier adventure which includes skywalk and glacier walk, we arrived at 12pm and we were out of there by 4pm. It was extremely busy there but you would never know it by how smooth it is ran! We hardly waited for anything! They give you about 10 minutes on the glacier to take pics or fill up a water bottle with glacier water. The HUGE off road vehicles they take you up there in are also pretty neat, definitely worth the trip and stop, a must do!!"
"My daughter and I booked this vacation, as we were so excited about seeing as much about Alberta as we could squeeze into 10 days of vacation. This was one of the top places we wanted to see. It was sad to find out that in 60 years, it would be completely gone. The bus driver for Brewsters tours made the trip even more enjoyable. This is a must for everyone to visit."
"I've lived in the mountains my whole life, and I still find these rocky peaks and huge glaciers awe-inspiring. Starting at the building, there was plenty of room for RV parking and the building was crowded but the line-ups moved quickly. Our bus to the big ice rovers broke down but we were quickly taken over to another one and hauled half way up the hill. Onto the ice buggy, it was a bit top-heavy feeling but the speed maxed out at 18km/h so it was slow and steady. Once on the ice, we were timed (approx 15 min), we got out, wandered in a small area, drank some fresh, running water, snapped a few photos, and jumped on the big-wheeled buggy to head back. Overall a great experience. I think this is a much more enjoyable, hands-on experience than walking on the Glacier Walkway. This walkway only sticks out on a hillside along the highway, that you drive beside the whole way from Jasper. There's much better viewpoints along the way than this one."
"One of the best things we did in our whole 4 weeks ! The company was informative & interesting , the time on the glacier is just enough - especially if the weather is rough & the ride in the snow machine is more than memorable . Liked their ""green"" approach to a lot of things too ."
It was really interesting and the tour guides were funny. I was impressed with how organized brewsters is in moving people to and from the icefields.
"It was awesome and full of knowledgable guides! Beautiful sites, tips:- wear hikers or at least sneakers. There will be slushy spots that look solid. - take a light sweater if you're not used to the cold. I am from northern Alberta and wished I had taken a light sweater. - take water bottles to fill up with glacier water! We forgot and regret it! - don't be afraid to ask a stranger to take your photo! - do this during a hot part of the day, gives you a chance to cool off.- book your tickets online- if not, the hotelLobby also sells tickets"
Don't make a special trip here and don;t bother with the vehickles that take you up on the Icefield. The new Overlook is also overpriced.
"Cool tour that on a vehicle they say cost $1,000,000, and takes you to the foot of the ice field. You get about 15 minutes to walk around, take pictures or drink water from the glacier. The kids had fun."
"We enjoyed the trip on the ice field. The driver of the bus from the center to the Explorer was very informative, as was the driver of the explorer. Would recommend to all ages."
This is a rare opportunity to walk on a glacier so not to be missed if you are in the area. The ride out to the glacier on specially made vehicles begins a very fun visit to a very special place. Enjoy it!
"Everyone has their bucket list of things to see before they die, this should be one. For someone like myself who does not live near mountains this was a sight to see. The sheer size and beauty of the mountains is mind blowing and it seems no matter what angle you choose you always make a nice picture. Breath taking!"
"I was expecting field of Ice and then, the impressive part is to see how far you have to go to actually see the glacier. Global warming is not just a theory : it's quite obvious here !So it used to be a very big glacier, but in a way, not so much anymore...So that's good to know before maybe ?"
Having been to the icefield several times my husband and I decided to miss out on the glacier bus and for him to do the skywalk instead. The receptionist very kindly gave me a free ticket to go up on the bus as I was not participating in the skywalk. I cannot even stand on a chair let alone walk on glass suspended thousands of feet in the air. The skywalk is smaller that we envisaged and you cannot see it from below which is a shame. It is one of those attractions that once done that's it you can cross it off your list.
"Unforgetable. Awesome. Difficult to find the words. The beauty touched us. First visit in the afternoon. Overnight it started snowing. Went back the next morning. Awesome, even more touching. We took the advance ofvisiting all the interesting areas including the Glacier Tour (interesting) and the Skywalk (scary in the beginning ...)"
"This is a very well organized tourist attraction. Our guide from Sundog Tours led us through the ticketing and from then on we were transported (assigned time) from the boarding area to the departure area of the Icefield Tour buggies. the driver of #549 (Nate) was informative, interactive with the group we were with. Although this tour is quite short, I was able to have access to a plethora of information. I found it hard to believe you would see running water on a glacier.Definitely a worthwhile and unique experience, a tour for all age groups."
We went on the glacier as part of our coach transfer. After a good lunch we picked up the glacier coach that was driven by a brilliant retired Japanese Banker. He was so humurous with his commentary and explaination of the area and ice coach. The glacier was amazing but made all the better by the guide. I hope he never retires from this job!It was a great expereince walking on the ice.
We enjoyed the ride on the ice field explorer. Tour driver was very informative of the area. The glacier water was so cold and good. You must take an empty bottle of water with you to fill up with the glacier water. It felt weird to know that you were walking on a glacier.
We walked on the glacier. Had a ride on the icefield explorer. Touched the cleanest healthiest water. An interesting education trip
"The trip in the famous bus doesn't allow people to stay there longer... you can barely enjoy.. they should run a hop on ho off system, so tourists can enjoy more... there are other glaciers in the Rockies more enjoyable, such as Berg Glacier!!"
Bring a water bottle so you can fill up on the glacier water. Also it is cold so wear something warm and good footwear. Also go early as the drive up is beautiful and there's lots of people there. Go to the second ticket booth by the gift shop to avoid line-ups.
"There was not a single thing to dislike, except that there are not many (like one or two) service type places to stop between Lake Louise and Jasper"
"We skipped the bus and walked the trail from the parking lot. The hike is about 30 minutes, and you get to walk from the bottom of the glacier to the top. You also get to see where the glacier was situated in 1992."
Took our eight year old on a tour to see this wonderful country. The Columbia Ice fields is one of the remaining ice fields left and the easiest to see. It is important to understand that these ice fields are shrinking. It was a great lesson but it is also a beautiful site. The drive whether from Banff or Jasper is also beautiful but please drive carefully. Lastly make sure you dress properly. You will enjoy the ICE fields much more.
By now the Columbia icefield is more or less under total control of the Brewster money machine. But do not give up. Opposite to the icefield center is the access to the PARKING LOT right at the bottom of the glacier. In three visits I always found a parking spot interesting enough. You hike five minutes and arrive on top of the glacier moraine. There is a line that tells you not to go further (I call this the Brewster money line) but if you look careful you see to the ultra left a small bridge letting you pass the waters and get onto the field. The same access is used by the guided icefield tours which is still way better value than the Brewster bus (I am NOT affiliated with either organization but I am tired to pay too much money for no product). Enjoy the Glacier while it lasts !
"One of our highlights of our trip fantastic guide in the bus
Being on the glacier was fantastic kids loved it"
"My friend and I took a 3hr hike on the Athabasca Glacier via the tour from IceWalker. The guide was very informative, and by taking the hike, I got to see and feel the glacier up close. By parking at the parking lot down near the Glacier (across the Icefield Hwy from the visitor center). Folks can go hiking on the Glacier w/o a guide, but I certainly can see some pitfalls, since there are indeed hazards on the glacier, especially if the weather was bad. We were lucky that we had a wonderful weather and had the time to do the hike and not ride the vehicle tours."
"The Athabasca Glacier is a site you must see and is about one hour from Jasper. You can purchase tickets at the Centre on the Icefield parkway or online in advance. If you purchase in advance you can skip the very very long lines and go to the pre-purchase short line to board the big wheeled bus to the glacier. You can see 2% before the mountains-and the 2% is very large - the guide said the glacier has melted by 40%...so go see it now! My 16 year old was really impressed. You can get a different bus to the new Skywalk, a glass bottomed walkabout over the valley complete with audio tour on local animals and geology-very cool."
"So Columbia Ice Field experience is a definite must do while in Banff/Jasper National Parks. We stayed at Lake Louise and did a day trip driving North to Columbia IceFields. Easiest way is to book your tickets online and do remember once you go inside (and see line to purchase tickets), stay to the line on the far right as you will need to book a time prior to starting this tour. Once you get a tour time you move to the far left to line up when its your time and you will line up to board the BIG bus. This bus is very interesting as it has giant tires. You will know why this is necessary once you start the drive to the glacier. The incline and decline is ridiculously steep! Very fun. Then you drive onto the glacier (Athabasca Glacier) to experience the cold, beautiful blue color of the ice and make sure you bring an empty water bottle to fill up with melting glacial ice. Just delicious tasting ice water!"
"We drove the Ice Field Parkway through this area and, in the words of the Canadians, it was AWESOME! You'll need a spare memory card for your camera because there are so many photographic opportunities."
"We visited Glacier National Park a few years ago, enjoyed it, but seeing a glacier is tough to come by. Not here! You see dozens from the highway with many convenient viewpoints.You are continuously struck with incredible views as you are surrounded by mountains on both sides but without challenging mountain driving. We splurged on taking the big Ice Bus. Its expensive, but its kind of like taking a gondola ride in Venice - where else are you going to do it? It was a delightful experience."
"A trip onto the glacier, definitely recommended. Just makes you aware of what global warming is doing to our planet."
"This is absolutely worth getting the day long tour - interesting drive from Jasper south to the Ice Field - walk on the glacier, have a not so great all you can eat buffet lunch, and the highlight, walk across the glass and steel sky walk high above the ice field. It just opened in May 2014, and it is a wonder."
"We visited the ice field recently, it is a very busy attraction but nonetheless very well done by the Brewsters team. It's great to get in one of their huge ice buses and go up on the glacier"
"It is sad that like other things the ice fields are melting. I was there about 50 years ago and I remember this being massive. It is still very impressive and I am glad we went, however it is a lot smaller. It is worth going and getting the history on the ice fields."
The visitor centre load!e where you collect your tickets is fairly new and can handle the large number of people that they get especially by the coach load. Restaurant has a good selection for non-meat eaters and is fairly well priced. The bus drivers were fun and informative and took great care of you. Only dislike is the cost but an enjoyable experience.
I was a bit sceptical before we went on this as had read some negative reviews but am really glad I ignored them.Yes it is touristy but then most people visiting are tourists and it will probably be the only chance most people will get to stand on a glacier.Our driver of the ice explorer was very amusing and informative and added to the whole experience.The only negative thing I can say is that it was a bit chaotic inside the visitor centre trying to find out which queue to join.Also we had pre-purchased tickets and weren't aware that we had to be given a time before joining the queue.All in all though I would recommend to do this if you are travelling down the Icefields Parkway.
"To walk on the Columbia Ice Field (Athabasca Glacier) puts the ""awe"" in awesome. The depth of the ice and the expanse make you feel so small. You also feel sad that global warming is reducing the size of this magnificent natural wonder."
Great guides and fun to walk on the glacier! We would recommend going early to avoid lines. Dress warmly. Guides were hilarious.
"A good opportunity to actually get onto a glacier. Driving up there on an ice explorer was worth the price of the ticket. Our guides were very knowledgeable and did not sound like they were regurgitating a script. There is a Canadian flag on the field so you can send photos of you looking windswept and interesting, back to work. Yes I know its shallow. Worth the $'s"
Can't see why people pay to go on this when you can drive and park to the lower car park and walk 15 minutes up some safe terrain to the glacier edge for free.Nature is spectacular enough here for free without costly embellishment.If you can't get a decent photo here you should eBay your camera.We noticed that the sky walk was a bus ride back down the highway further away from the glacier than the visitor centre and glaciers edge car parks. Not sure why anyone would do that...but we didn't so I suppose I shouldn't comment.
What a idea! Skywalk on glacier. Amazing. What a feeling. Too good. We could locate mountain goat also down on hill. Superb arrangement. Enterprising drivers. Package of sky walk & ice glacier adventure.
Expensive but well organised and a rare chance to walk on a glacier. Long queues but organisation means wait not long.
"I was so excited to go out to the ice field, but our driver was difficult to understand and it felt like standing on a snowbank in spring. Very expensive for the experience. We should have parked near the glacier and walked to it."
this was a very neat place and the views were amazing. the road was nice as for the Canada roads go. will go back some day soon.
"The Ice Field was part of a tour that we were on and a really nice outing. It was a cold day but with hat and gloves, very enjoyable. Good flat shoes are a must. The staging center is very nice and has a nice little café. The time on the glacier is only about 15 minutes but that is long enough to see what you want to see and get the feel of it all."
"We visited the center and arrived just before noon. This was by plan in order to avoid crowds if there. It did not take long to board our bus for travel across the road and up the valley to the actual ice field. A comfortable and amazing ride. At the field, you disembark the main bus and board an ice field vehicle which has huge wheels and capacity to climb on to the ice fields. Part of the ride is extremely steep but we never felt uncomfortable. On the ice field the vehicle stops and you can get out and walk on the glacier. If you want to collect pure glacier water, you should take a vessel to carry water and collect it. There are usually many vehicles and many people but never over crowded. You are there for about 20 minutes or so. The pictures below are looking across the road to the ice field from the Center and looking at the glacier itself with the water flowing from melt. It was not cold but jackets are required."
We took the columbia icefields tour and the scenery was gorgeous! I would only recommend the bus tour for first time visitors though since they really just take you inside the icefields and let you roam around a small flagged off area.
Hop in a monster truck cross bus to get to the top most of the drive is on ice and it is just amazing to get your photo at the top and of the view as well of course
"The Columbia Icefield area is hands down one of the most spectacular places on Earth. Whether you are a hardcore mountaineer or a sandal-clad tourists, you will find something here to enjoy. The Icefields Centre is heavy on pay-for-attractions and light on info for hikers/climbers, but a great place to stop for some lunch and a washroom break if needed, or to grab tickets for the bus ride onto the glacier if thats your thing. Given the proximity to the icefield and corresponding glaciers, expect it to be cool and windy even in the summer."
"Great staff, very expensive Tonka type ""toys"" to get 40 people up an impossibly steep sloop to walk on a glacier. But not much to do one you get there"
"We were with a tour group so not too much waiting. The Sno-coach was an experience and our guide amusing. The scenery is pretty impressive but you don't really get to explore the icefield, just step on the edge of the glacier."
"We enjoyed this area as it is very scenic and interesting to see while in the area. Jasper area is ""big country"" with lots of wildlife."
A not to be missed adventure by snow track to the ice fields. The signs showing the retreat of the glacier are an interesting and educational addition. Breathing taking view up close.
A beautiful place to see. We saw the long hole where a man and his dog fell into and never made it back out. It's a bit pricey but well worth it.
Great views of several glaciers and the very large ice field. First time we've seen anything like this. This was the coldest spot on our trip.
"Loved the new Jasper skywalk, excellent information on the ice fields and how they were formed. Amazing place never to be missed."
"We had a car so we drove the short road down from the main highway to a car park, then took a short uphill walk to the of the terminal moraine and got great views of the main ice field glacier and the surrounding peaks from behind the Park's barrier. The edge of the glacier is some distance away, and it looked more like a snow field than a glacier, without the steep glacier face seen on other glaciers at higher altitudes from the Ice field Parkway. If you have never walked on snow or ice, I guess taking the special tour bus might appeal (or better still a guided walk on foot) as a novelty, but we did not bother. We saw a large number of foolhardy people, including with toddlers, ignore the warning signs and walk unguided up to and on the glacier. Lives have been lost down crevasses here in the past, but stupidity abounds."
"This is one of those things you read about and think you must do. but I am sorry to say it was not worth the cost. Lots of people waiting to go in lines. Go out on vehicles, with driver talking about area as you ride. Limited information, exactly what I read before I went on ride. It is beautiful but constant walking and driving on it certainly is not good for preservation. Surprised Canadian parks allow it. Stand for 15minutes in small limited area with a lot of folks and load back up to go back. Maybe one to the glacier walks would be a better experience??? I had to do it but would not do it again."
We were on a huge bus-like vehicle with special treads and went down a very steep hill to get to the glacier. Being on a glacier was a new experience and quite interesting. I am not sure I would bother again however.
"Our trip onto the Glacier (Athabasca) was done as a tour group, we were ferried from the terminal to the Brewster Ice Explorer station per normal coach.At the station these huge specially built all terrian six wheelers were there to meet us (awesome piece of machinery) to take us onto the glacier.Our driver come guide was very informative & humorous pointing out all relevant aspects to the the glacier & its effects on the surroundings .Once on the glacier the sheer magnitude of it left you in awe. We spent approx; 30 mins; there just soaking up the atmosphere & taking many photos.We were fortunate enough to have prestine weather whilst on the the glacier but just an hour prior it was snowing, talk about three seasons in one day!Whilst in Jasper National Park , i recommend a visit to the Athabasca glacier, whilst it may not be one of the seven wonders ,it certainly rates up there!"
"Personally I would much rather look at a glacier from binoculars. We did this activity based on someone telling us that they did it. My husband and I love nature, outdoors….and this is just a big money racket in my opinion. They take you up in these huge buses and when you get up there, you're not even allowed to walk up on the glacier. They have a space carved out ""ice"" where the buses are and that's it. That is they only place they let you walk. So essentially you are not experiencing the real glacier. The process of it all takes a lot of time up too.However the tour guide was great and knowledgable and the views were beautiful up there, but I think for all the time involved (for our trip) we would have chosen to spend our time more wisely in retrospect."
"When you see how fast this ice field is receding it shows how global warming is living geography.The bit I didn't like was the 'tour buses' that go up the left side of the lateral moraine and access onto the Athabasca glacier itself, this cannot help the glacier and in my view is tourism at its worstThe walk from the car park at the toe of the glacier to get the views is not strenuous and if you really want to walk on it ( why?) then join a guided walk!It's a must to see as it won't be so easily viewable for your grandchildren!"
"This is such good fun. We had bought tickets in advance which helped with the queues and was good value as part of a package along with the Banff Gondola and the Skywalk. You are taken by bus from the visitor centre to where you transfer to the Snowcoach. This then takes you to the glacier. You get about 20 minutes at the glacier which is enough time to take some great snaps. Its awesome to stand on a glacier in the middle of summer. But the best bit for us was having Jake (yes, she is a girl) as our guide. She sings and performs as well as drives the Snowcoach and is an experience in itself. Highly recommended to take a stop here on the way up or down the Icefields Pathway."
"I was with a group, so we did not have to stand in line for tickets. There is a bus that takes you across the road where you board what looks like a giant bulldozer to drive across the ice. Our driver/guide was a young man named Kiefer, who was very enthusiastic. You walk across the ice, but it gets slushy in spots, so you can get a foot full of (cold) water. If you bring a bottle, you can fill it and drink pure glacier water. It's worth doing for the experience, but once you are on the ice, there isn't much to do besides wait to go back."
"This review is more about how to actually GET to the Explorer or Skywalk, than a review of the ice and Glacier.If driving in from the Banff (south) side, first you will encounter the Columbia Icefields Centre, which is where you MUST stop to secure your viewing time. It doesn't matter if you already have your Time booked (from an online purchase) you must still stand in line to CONFIRM that, and be told which line to stand in, for the bus to take you out the 5 minutes drive up the highway (towards Jasper.) Whilst standing in line, the ONLY ticket taker (on a SATURDAY!!!) will remind the waiting crowd that there is another ticket booth at the other end of the centre that is not as busy. Yes, it WAS as busy. What they don't tell you is that even after you have stood in line to get your Skywalk time confirmed, guess what? You still have to go over to that ticket booth in the back to get your Glacier Explorer time confirmed as well! She couldn't do both at this particular computer. This is so UNACCEPTABLE! There were NO SIGNS to tell you that, NOWHERE ONLINE did it tell you that, and what this meant was, every single party (including ours) trying to confirm a time for either the Skywalk or Explorer or both, had to have a full conversation with the ticket agent before they could comprehend that they still weren't done, where to line up etc. It took a lot of time for every single guest to get through, so allow at least 40 minutes just to get through this line even if you have your online tickets in hand. Even the 2 separate lineups for the separate buses to Skywalk or Explorer....one can't see the small signs that are on posts 4' high from the floor. When there is a lineup of people, one can't see that. Why not have LARGE Hanging signs above each line? I don't know who to blame fully - Brewsters or Parks Canada? I was ashamed of the disorganization at this world class facility in our National Parks.Imagine dragging 3 small children around as you try to figure out which Check -in desk to go to....or that one even has to go to the desk? Maybe mention that online or on the ticket, which by the way my Glacier Explorer ticket did say: "" Book/confirm a bus time unless you have a booked time"" - which we did: we had a 2:00pm booked time. No matter we were told, we still had to stand in line and re-apply as it were, to get our names on the bus load. Note: You can book a time online for the Glacier, or the Skywalk, but if you book a package you cannot book both times online. I can understand that people may not allow enough time for themselves to be able to properly book the second event properly, and so in this case it may merit the lineup to book the buses properly, but this doesn't wash if booking only one event.  The girls working at these desks were professional and courteous and I felt for them. One said that the one large sign that they did have (above her desk) had just been installed that morning-late June. Come on - whoever is managing this has dropped the ball on signage and organization. Visit the place as if you didn't know where to go or what to do (as many foreign tourists will) and see the gaping HOLES in the whole experience. We left feeling harried: from the experience, herded to the busses etc.The bus driver to and from the base to the Icefield Glacier was courteous and amusing, but talked about himself too much. I have taken this tour 30 years ago, 15 years ago and now, and the ride was taken up with chatter about how cute his name tag was and such, and very LITTLE information about the Glacier itself as given. How about letting everyone know about the rate of recession? Just in the past year...not only across the parking lot where the markers from 1883 are. What about the Depth of the ice? He said he had been there a few years and was the boss of these seasonal workers....maybe someone above him should check if he is doing his job properly because I think he missed a lot of script, he was so enamored with himself. Disappointing when we could have heard a lot of appropriate facts along with a chuckle. TIP: The Glacier: Take warm clothes for the winds, and an empty water bottle so you can fill it with pure Glacier water to drink. At the centre is a large cafeteria with items from poutine, chicken fingers, Pho, some Asian food, fresh salads and fruit. Very well run and the food was pricey as it is in the Parks, but adequate and warm food with choices was welcomed. There is also a separate dining room experience.  2 Bathroom biffies in the parking lot - Thanks Parks Canada for those!"
"This was our stop off between Emerald Lake and Jasper. It's ok if you like tourist traps! The ice explorer trucks are huge, but do you really get that when you're sitting inside? The driver was like a kid with a new toy driving his truck down a steep slope, the commentary was cheesy, and all you do is stand on ice for 15 minutes looking at a glacier. Anyone who has been skiing does not need to do this! save your money. The skywalk was better but still nothing that a gondola or tram ride won't give you. We went to the cafe about 2.30pm - there was no selection of food available by then. It was a very expensive couple of hours."
"There is two parts to this experience, observing the glacier from afar seeing it in the larger natural scene, and the other is being out on the ice itself. It's the same difference as seeing a forest from a passing car, and from walking amongst the trees. Everyone seems to perceive it in their own way, but whatever you personally take away from the experience, don't miss the opportunity. These glaciers diminish every year, there will not always be another chance."
"The price to take this tour may seem a little steep (Canadian $65, including the brand new Skywalk), but it's worth it. We had a particularly engaging tour guide, and the snow cat ride in itself is an experience. Where else can you stand on an ice sheet that's 675 feet thick?"
We arrived at 10:30am and were on the bus to the transfer center at 11am. Great people. Very helpful and informative. Truly a unique experience.
"This is a great way to get out on a glacier and truly see the way they operate. Although it takes an hour in total for about 15 minutes on/in the glacier , it is worth the time and trip."
WOW! What a work of nature! We chose to save money and not take tour but parked our car at base and walked up to the glacier. Really spectacular and not to be missed sight!
"My partner and I loved this! Part at the main visitors centre and hop on board the bus which takes you to the ice fields. The magnitude of the fields cannot be felt until you're actually out there. Take your camera, however don't expect to capture the essence in a still shot.Tip: Pre purchase tickets at your hotel online prior to getting there via: http://www.brewster.ca/rocky-mountains/destinations/columbia-icefield/activities/columbia-icefield-glacier-adventure/You can package deals and get a discount. We package the Ice field, Banff gondola and glacier skywalk.Skywalk leaves the visiors centre every 15 minutes and the Ice field I think every 30 mins"
"You just have to be impressed with Mother Nature. We were able to be ferried up to the ice field in a ""snow coach"" which looks a bit like a bus on steroids. The drivers know what they are doing and take care that you have as smooth a ride as possible. Our driver Rex was very knowledgeable about the geology and explorers of the area. When you get up to the glacier they let you out to walk around for about 15 minutes. The big surprise for us was how hot is was! We all thought that it would be cold but the sun was strong and we were able to take some great pics. If you don't hurry this glacier will be greatly reduced or gone altogether. We all enjoyed our time there."
This is must see attraction whenever you are in the Banff/Jasper area. It can be accomplished in a day trip from calgary as well. Experience the one of kind ride to the glacier and drink fresh water from the flowing streams.
"The trip on to the glacier on the Ice Explorer was fantastic. Our Driver/Guide was very informative and a very funny lady (Great Songs). The Ice Explorer Centre had a restaurant, shop and Restrooms so provided all the necessary facilities."
"First it was very cold there so wrap up. Price a bit steep, but so is everything else in this area. Not too busy the day we were there, but you do not get much time on the glacier. Guide very knowledgable, great to listen to. It actually snowed whilst we were there, and you must do it as it is a lovely sight."
You simply have to go on the Glacier Adventure! Ice Explorer takes you out onto the glacier where you have half an our to walk on the glacier and get some amazing photos. We'll worth it.
"It is very neat to see the history of the glaciers and valley. The price is a bit steep but so is everything in the parks. It is very cold on the glacier so dress warm, always breezy, usually very busy, go early to avoid the bus tour groups. Saw some bighorn sheep. Take a water bottle to fill with clear glacier water."
it was just awesome travelling along the Icefield park way. travelling through the snow and ice is not something we get to do on the Gold Coast in Queensland. Very pretty ...
"We got out of the car and walked a bit, then decided to go back to the car -- it was really windy and very cold. And we will probably regret it one day, but at the time...walking up a hill to coldness and ice...held little appeal. We had seen some gorgeous sites up until then and were quite happy skipping this part."
"very good and informative ,however felt slightly rushed once we were on the glacier itself. the ride on/off the glacier in the ice bus was an interesting experience great fun if you like fairground rides[which I do]"
"At $100 for two people we were a little disappointed, The Ice Bus basically takes you out onto the glacier, into a parking lot that they have made about half the size of a soccer field, when your getting off they tell you not to leave that area as it can be dangerous, Which yes, Glaciers can be dangerous, but put in a little extra time and effort and make some safe paths to follow, I've been in Europe on glaciers and that's what they have done, much more interesting then standing on an ice parking lot, Save your money, and go to the free parking lot and walk up to the foot of the glacier,"
"There are times when you are at the end of your destination when there are no words and when you are on the glacier it's like that.Not man made, no messing with how it looks and building of fun fairs near buy to spoil the area.This is a must see."
"Its free and there's ample parking. The climb to the glacier is steep in places and we had to walk through up hill through snow today to get there. Fine going up, not so easy coming down. The view from the top is fantastic but its worrying to see how much its shrunk by in the last 100 years.We didn't do any organised trip, just parked up and walked and didn't feel like we missed out on anything."
An awesome experience. Went on Brewster tour guides were very knowledgable and informative. The skywalk although I was terrified was an amazing experience
"Really enjoyed getting the chance to walk on an actual glacier, where else in the word can you say that you got to stand on glacier. If you are up there during the spring melt, bring a water bottle up with you and fill it up with fresh glacier water that flows from the glacier. The ride out to the glacier on the snow coaches is a lot of fun too, although I can see why some people skip this attraction with it's steep ticket price to take the ride out there. Best time to visit is anytime but the summer as this place gets quite busy with all the summer tourists. Even for May I was quite surprised with how busy it was. Guides and staff are very friendly and are full of information. Even just viewing it from the visitor's centre is quite a sight, definitely worth the stop!"
"We visited the Columbia Icefield, and decided not to pay the $50 for the snowmobile tour, but rather to walk to the toe of the glacier ourselves instead.It was a fairly easy walk. We walked from the main facility which took 1.5 hours round trip. If you are in a car (we came by bus) you can get to within an easy 15 minute walk from the closeby carpark.People on our tour enjoyed the snowmobile, but a few questioned whether it was worth the steep price. However, both ways are enjoyable, so you can choose."
"We had really looked forward to this on our trip...until we got there. The Center on property was disappointing. We expected more information on the Glaciers and Ice Fields to be displayed there - they had a gift shop, dining and places to buy tickets - no information that we could find. We decided to walk to the Ice Fields instead of paying to walk out on them - not worth the walk. There are interpretive signs along the way that explain how the glacier is melting because of humans...and they are having people pay to drive on the glaciers. Seemed a bit hypocritical to me."
They say the Ice Fields Parkway drive is the most beautiful drive on earth. Subjective I know but I for one tend to agree. From the moment you turn left out of Jasper and onto the Ice Field Parkway the camera was rarely not in use. Everywhere you turn you are surrounded by amazing vistas. Did it last year in a bit of a hurry. Once we digested the majesty of the place when we got back to the UK there was no way we were not going to be back there... An absolute must!!
"The Columbia Ice Field feeds the Columbia River, and is a majestic and quiet place. There is plenty of opportunity to view wildlife and other glacial phenomena on the path to and from the icefields. We saw big horned sheep in migration from the road."
"My girlfriend and I travelled up to the Ice Field with SunDog tours. The drive up was great - our guide, Dan, was easy to get along with, and stopped often to let us see the wildlife (we saw 4 bears on the way up!) and various scenic stops along the way. While we didn't want to pay the 50$ to go onto the glacier, we were still able to get a good view by hiking to the toe of the glacier. The weather was a bit nasty but the views more than made up for it. We did go onto the SkyWalk, and I think it was worth the 25$. The views are stunning, and although it can be a bit scary if you have problems with heights, it's a really cool thing to do."
Didn't really know what to expect but pleasantly surprised...Had the buffet lunch and enjoyed so much stopped on the way back from Jasper to eat...Definitely glad we did it and might allow 2-2 1/2 hours total for meal and the 1-hour RT to glacier...You are required to buy a ticket to ride a bus to the glacier...
"A nice attraction, and reasonably priced for Jasper National Park at $25 each. You get tickets at the main Columbia Icefield Discovery Centre, and travel by shuttle bus a few kilometers north to the lookout site. It's on the south west side of the main highway, and open only to the shuttle buses. They pull in and drop passengers/pick up returnees on about a 10 min. turnaround. The attraction is informative. Free handheld audio tour units are available in all languages; they are informative and easy to use. The glass floored walkway over the Sunwapta Valley is impressive; a semicircle with about a 50 foot radius. The entire attraction is made of steel plate and beams and is very solid looking. This is a reasonably priced attraction to visit on the Icefield Parkway between Jasper and Banff."
This was a great chance to walk on the ice field. Our driver sammy was very good and knowledgeable he also had good sense of humour and made us laugh on the trip to and from the ice field
"Living in FL we don't get to see glaciers so this was an amazing experience for us. The huge ""bus"" that transports you to the ice field are quiet interesting. Our driver was informative, funny, and very entertaining. This was one of the highlights of our Canadian Rockies Tour."
I wasn't so excited but I actually did enjoy this. You actually are standing on a glacier. Well put together tourist attraction.
interesting visit. fun on the big ice truck thing. drank water melting from the glacier. informative driver.
We went to the ice fields as part of a cosmos tour and would have to say it was one of the high lights of the tour. It is very well organised and the ice fields staff are brilliant. We were fortunate to go up there on a clear day visibility was excellent for 25 mins then the weather changed quickly and we got light snow. Would recommend.
"Just been on the newly opened Glacier Skywalker, while there are some teething problems with ticketing and signage the whole experience is fantastic. Withe some amazing views, friendly staff and breath taking experiences. I would recommend anyone visiting this attraction take time to experience it."
"Indeed, the views are so spectacular I wonder if any Camera will truly capture the natural beauty ! This is a MUST if you are visiting the Banff area and very beautiful !"
"We visited on May when everything was covered with ice and snow. So why pay 50$ to see more ice ?
It is a very efficient overpriced tourist trap"
We took the Brewster snow bus up to the glacier and got out and had a quick walk about the glacier. Some of the snow was melting and quite wet and slushy. We bought it as part of a package which included the skywalk and banff gondola which worked out much cheaper than buying individually. The views were well worth it.
A stunning part of the world. You can take the adveture tour and walk on the glacier which was fun. The tour is unique so worth a go however just as nice to sit back and look from nearby.
"It was a pretty cool experience to know you were walking on an ice field. The giant snow coaches were fun and the tour guide we had (although they all seem fun) was really funny and really knowledgeable. I would say for those who like things a little quieter, this isn't for you. We went in May (not peak season) and there were 100's of people being crammed left right and centre! Well organised and once up on the glacier it didn't feel like that - you could get a photo without other people in it! I think its a must do, to say you've done it, but wouldn't do it again. Also you only got like 10 minutes actually on the glacier which didn't seem very long. The glacier is said to be gone within the next 80 years so go soon!"
"This is a cool place to visit, particularly if you have never seen a glacier before. Highlight was the ride on the crazy monster truck sized bus that takes you up to the glacier. We were lucky to get good views between blizzards in April, so views of course are weather dependent."
"This ice field is a very unique experience. I recommend going on the huge ice field busses that bring you on the glacier. Our guide was from Australia and couldn't have been better. He gave us facts about the glacier and was nice and polite throughout the trip. Walking on the glacier was the best! The only downside is that it is a little bit too pricey- $50+ per person for only 80 min. Don't forget to bring a water bottle to taste some ""glacial water."" Also wear thick clothing because it can get very cold on the glacier. Totally recommend this for anyone looking for a unique adventure!"
"The walk to glacier is a disgrace from the top car park , no signage or markers you are better off walking down the road to the lower car park which is still shut ? Views are great it's a shame Canada national park service does nothing here but maybe that is so you will pay fifty bucks to jump on a crowded bus to drive two kilometres onto the ice ??"
Great experience to drive on a monster ice field bus and enjoy glaciers to its best. Amazing facts about glaciers makes it much more exciting.
"It was my second visit here, the last time was just over 20 years ago. It was sad to see how much the glacier had receded since then. That said, it is still stunning and beautiful. I do recommend paying the money and taking the ice buggies down onto the glacier. Being on the glacier and being so much closer is amazing. as other people have mentioned, no matter how warm it is at the centre, do take a jacket or another layer with you, as it is much colder on the glacier! Also take an empty water bottle with you and sample some of the glacial melt water! it is incredibly icy cold and delicious!"
Even with some clouds about the Columbia Ice Field is always a treat. Make sure you dress warm as it's about 30 degrees colder on the glacier....bbbrrrr
This is the 3rd time we have visited the icefield. Although the weather wasn't the greatest it is still a spectacular sight. The road heading down to the icefield was closed due to the snow but we heading down anyway. It was a good walk.
This is a must do drive in Spring with the magnificent snow covered mountains and valleys and glaciers. There are no words to describe the beauty of this area.
"So many folks hopping on a bus. Unless you're in an age or condition where you cannot physically make the hike, take a few hours and park in the closer lot and make your way down, and then up to the ice. Be warned if you do though, there are lots of small rocks to hike over, so good footwear will be important. Take your time and take in the view. It is a long hike to get to the ice, and even if you don't make it, it is still worth the trip. Bring your camera!"
This was our second visit to the ice fields. We stopped on our way from Banff to Jasper and went on the trip upto onto the glacier in the special bus.At the time the view from the stopping area on the glacier was a bit obstructed by piles of snow which had been pushed off the stopping area. Still well worth a visit.
"The whole glacier seems to be melting away, and the diesel-powered buses driving on top sure aren't helping. A lot of money to stand in a puddle."
"Not to sure how to judge this attraction since the drive up is amazing and this does break up the drive to Jasper but overall in not that amazing as it is ice afterall.
It is a unique experience if nothing else."
"The tour was well organized and executed, we purchased our tickets in Banff and got a discount for two attractions( banff gondola and the ice fields. Now you can buy three including the newly opened ice walk just past the glacier for a greater discount. Providing you want to do all three things. The tour guides we had in the buses were both great, very informative and funny."
A well organized snow bus tour and walks on glacier! Very scenic and Absolutely cold even on the hottest of the days here. So be well prepared!
"Went here a while ago, and it was just Amazing. To see how the glacier has receded over the years is unbelievable. It was great, don't think I will get to walk on one again. If you ever get the chance, please visit it's Beautiful !!!"
"Set in amongst the beautiful Rocky Mountains this is a natural wonder. We visited in January and there was lots of snow so much of the glaciers were covered and a bit difficult to see. However, it was an amazing drive and it is not difficult to appreciate the majesty of this area. A word of warning though for those travelling the ice fields parkway in winter. Just about all the road side toilets are closed and the visitors centre at the Columbia ice field is also closed so going to the bathroom is tricky ( an somewhat amusing) especially if there has been lots of snow. We also were stopped along the road to the ice field so they could do avalanche control which resulted in a 2 hour wait. So go prepared for anything."
We see the ice field every year. It's spectacular. But sad in that it's receding. A must see if your in the area. It actually shows by signs and dates how far it has receded in last 100 years or so. Beautiful. Don't miss it
"If you do this, go first thing in the morning. Otherwise the crowds become overwhelming. One of those activities that is good to do once in your life."
"This trip was my husband's second and it was my first. My husband first visited the Columbia Ice Field in the 70's on his own and we visited together in September 2012. He described it now as a glacier that's a shell of its former self while I describe it as good. I have visited another glacier in the State of Alaska so I have a comparison with the Columbia Ice Field.I bet this glacier looks better on Winter time, but September reveals all of its nook and cranny, so to speak. I saw a lot of the dirty water runoff from the mountains. I was not really impressed with the Glacier itself. It kind of looked sorry to me. The mountains surrounding it, however, with all its snowcap, looked much better. There is an opportunity for visitors to walk on the Glacier and you can also book bus rides. Maybe my experience would have been more enjoyable if it was in winter or maybe springtime. With more snow covering the ground the Columbia Ice Field should look more grand."
it is just amazing to be able to take the bus and to be able to walk on the ice fields! and see the massive scope of the fields with the beautiful rockey mountains in the back ground an experience everyone should be able to do once in a lifetime!
"I remember how impressive the glacier seemed in the 1970s when I was a youngster. It is a shadow of its former self now, and while it might still remain impressive in the eyes of those who've not been on a glacier previously, for myself it is a sad reminder of what used to be."
"About an hour or so drive up north from Banff town, you will find the Columbia Ice Field. A true historic site to visit, pretty steep hike from the parking lot to the start of the glacier or you can buy tickets from the information centre to ride the glacier vehicle which take you right to the top of the glacier. The information centre does tend to get really crowded with tourist but really informative if you visit the gallery on eth bottom floor, you get to learn a lot about glaciers from the beginning of time to present and how it moves and stuff. Cool experience Make sure you have a jacket handy cause it does tend to get really cold even in summer months close to the glacier, right off the Ice filed Hwy heading toward Jasper, Specular views & camera is a must, wonderful pic spots.Will definitely visit again."
"Very busy attraction but with plenty of toilets to cater for the large crowds. Restaurant very busy so did not have time for lunch as timed ticket for the ice explorer ride (but after the excellent breakfast from Jasper park lodge was not really hungry anyway). The first part of the trip to the glacier was by coach then transfer to the Ice Explorer. All drivers very friendly and the organisation was superb. The ice field from the visitor centre did not look that spectacular but once on the Ice the true beauty of the glacier was revealed the blueness was amazing, and knowing you are standing on ice thousands of years old was awesome."
"Closed October to April, but just fabulous in summer time, don't miss the ice trucks, a bit expensive but worth it!"
"If you have never stepped out on a glacier, this is your chance. About midway along the Icefields Parkway between Banff & Jasper, this attraction also has a hotel adjacent for those of you who would like to spend the night. The ride out onto the glacier on a specially made vehicle is lots of fun and informative. And you also get to get off the vehicle and walk around on the glacier for a while,where you can actually drink some glacier water...really! Make sure you do this while travelling from Banff to Jasper or back. But even in summer you would need a warm jacket as it gets pretty cold on that sheet of ice and the wind coming down the glacier is pretty strong."
"I enjoyed the drive form Jasper to Banff, as the views were outstanding! It was interesting to see the ice fields, but I wouldn't recommend doing the tour. The trucks are huge, and neat, but they basically drive you up, let you stand around and take pics for 10 mins, and then drive you back down. I didn't find it was worth the money, outside of the bragging rights for having stood on a glacier."
We didn't actually get to go on the glacier as it was shut in late December. We did however brave the short walk out to the viewing area in a very windy and very cold December 26th. Amazing views.
"From start to finish the tour lasts about 90 minutes. Though the Centre was crowded, the line moved quickly. The whole adventure is interesting from riding from the Centre with the informative guide to transferring to the special vehicle to get onto the glacier and then stepping onto the glacier itself. It is exhilarating to feel the frigid air and hear chunks of ice breaking in the distance. Unless you take the tour, it would be impossible to really 'see' the glacier."
"A very worthwhile stop, and the journey out onto the ice was worth the money, even if it takes much longer to get there and back than time on the ice. Brilliantly organised, however, with friendly helpful staff"
"How often can you get the opportunity to actually walk on a glacier ? According to us, taking this bus ride to the glacier was a fun experience. This is the closest you get to the magificient Columbia Ice fields. This place is huge !!! Make sure you dress warm becuase this place is freezing cold.Worth the stop and the money :)"
"What can you say about the Columbia ice field? Well the large tractor like buses are one. The knowledgeable cool quip driver is another, full of stories and more mundane information about this vast ice field. The actual ice field is epic and vast, but this is a trip for the ordinary traveller. You are bombarded with fierce stories by the friendly guide, sink holes and climbers who disaapear never to be seen again. But this is ice field easy and there is little strenuous walking here. The hazards are coned off and walking on the ice field is as safe as it can be. However, is it worth the effort and cost? Yes, in that unless you are an experienced climber it is unlikely you will have been on a glacier. This is ice field easy with little risk and the visitor centre provides refreshments and if you are of that mind, souvenirs of a vast and awesome natural phenomenon, which some would say, me included, reflect God's marvellous handiwork. 10 out of 10 for awesome and epic."
This is an everyman's glacier. You don't need special skills or special tools (though shoes with good grip will minimizing slipping and falling at the glacier). They bus you up the moraine and then they truck you to the middle of the glacial tongue. As someone who had never experienced a glacier this was a great introduction to these amazing natural formations. One tip bring a jacket. No matter how hot it is at the visitor centre it is freezing at the glacier.
"Worth stopping to see the Glacier, the posts which tell you where the glacier used to be at certain years was very interesting. The visitor centre was very busy, but as its the only stop for miles around understandable"
"Can be seen from a long way down the mountains. The icefields can be reached on foot providing you have some stamina. Ample parking on either side of the road. If you do decide to bypass the ghastly icefield coaches and head up there on foot, take a jacket as you will stop many times. We did about two hours off roading getting up there and back. Good fun!"
This really is a fascinating trip. Bussed from the visitor centre to a transit point you then transfer to the special Ice Buses which take you on to the glacier itself. Great commentary from the drivers explaining the history and geology of the area and the ever changing landscape. You are then able to wander about a safe part of the glacier and drink genuine glacier water - freezing even in summer! Whist you expect the glacier to be white it is actually greyish and greenish - not because it's dirty and polluted but because of the glacier debris it has brought done with it. The colors of the glacier melt are amazing. This place really brings geology to life
It was snowy roads icy as we travelled with sun dog tours brilliant trip couldn't get over colour of glacier pretty blue against the white snow excellent experience.
It's amazing! I didn't step out onto the glacier but it's possible to do that. The Columbia Icefield is located on the boundary of Banff and Jasper National Parks. One of the largest accumulations of ice and snow south of the Arctic Circle.
We absolutely loved our tour with Sunwdog from Jasper to Banff! The Columbia Ice Field was a highlight. Going on the Ice Explorer to the glacier was amazing. (we had a fellow Aussie driver which was a little strange but he was humorous and knowledgeable too) Do this whole tour or you are missing some of the best scenery in this area!
"On our way from Jasper to Banff by the bus from Sundog Tours, we had a stop for 2 hrs at this lace and I must confess that this was the trip of my life. The view is excellent and the glacier is mighty (I have also visited places like Iceland, Alaska and Norway), but this place is out of the blue.Take the Snow-Coach Tour to the middle of the glacier to appreciate it's vastness."
A true wonder of nature but frightening to see how much its actually melted and receded over the years. The drop over the edge in the Ice Explorer is fantastic.
the big snow bus look tiny from the center. The center look small from on the ice. But the snow bus tire is as tall as a person. The melt icy water is very tasty!
We walked to the glacier late in the afternoon and it was beautiful. Its a little trek (don't know why they don't open the bottom car park!) but don't let it put you off.There are facts and figures along the way which are great and lots of photo opportunities. I loved it and would highly recommend.
"Arrived just a few days (late September) before the Ice Field closed for the winter. Much less crowded on weekdays than weekends. Incredible experience, attentive employees, informative. The whole trip is about 1 1/2 to 2 hours, though only 20 minutes or so are actually spent on the glacier. There's a fairly lengthy line to board a bus that takes you to the base of the glacier. You then board a giant bus with 5 foot tires that actually drives you onto the glacier. The drive on this bus is fascinating. Once at the glacier, you get off the bus and can walk on the glacier. Great photo opportunities. Be sure to check the weather. We were going to go on a Saturday on our way to Jasper, but the weather was poor, with limited visibility and high wind (as well as big crowds). We returned on a Tuesday with great weather and less crowds."
"One of the most amazing drives/rides from Jasper to Banff. Spectacular scenery and wildlife along the whole way, don't forget to stop into Lake Louse."
"This is one of the most scenic drives we've taken. The high mountains and sparkling glaciers are awesome. Stop often. Take your time,"
"The Columbia Ice Field is amazing! Not your usual hike. There are a few ways to get on the Columbia Ice field, depending on how much time you have and what you are looking for. No matter what you decide, you will have an exciting adventure. At the foot of the mountain, right off the highway, there is a large visitors center that operates a hotel and a couple of restaurants. They also sell tickets for various kinds of tours, but most of them can be booked online. The most popular is probably the ice bus tour. They drive a group of tourists in one of those extreme bus-like vehicles with giant wheels to the glacier and let people spend 15-20 minutes on it taking pictures and enjoying the view. The other option is to book a hike. One would need to be in a decent physical condition as those hikes are multiple hour long and require the use of basic equipment like outerwear and clamps. It does get cold and windy up there even in the summer time. But it is not meant for professional climbers, almost anyone can do it."
"The Columbia ice field's centre was closed and the Ice field tour ride operator was closed as well as we were there on October 22. Which was disappointing but understandable as tourist season is over. You are still able to park and walk towards the ice fields.The ability to get great photographs of the various glaciers in the area. For any lover of nature, you have to make a trip to the Columbia ice fields."
Weather was excellent and a unique experience. The time out on the glacier passes quickly but the informative guides keep you entertained while being transported.
"We spent a week exploring the scenery and geology of the Columbia Ice Fields. I found this the most beautiful area in all of Canada. Skip Banff, and spend your time here and at Maligne Canyon."
"We stopped here on the way to Jasper from Banff. As it was out of season, parking and facilities were easy to use. We had an outdoor picnic at the base where the facilities are although the weather was cold. We then drove up to an area where you can then walk up towards the glacier (not actually on the glacier but at the base). That was good enough for us and worth the brief visit."
"I've been twice to this glacier, once in 1981 and again in 2013. The walk today is much longer, and the glacier is still retreating. I'm now going to look for my old photographs, so see how much it has changed. It costs nothing to drive to the car park, at the toe of the glacier. On the way to the car park, you'll see various little marker plaques indicating the positions of the glacier toe at different points in time. Look out for them, as it makes it more apparent, exactly where the glacier has been, and the degree to which it has retreated over time. There's a well made gravel walking track with a circular loop at the end, allowing good views of the toe. You'll be warned not to step off this path, as there are risks of falling stones, crevices hidden etc, and these will be most apparent on a sunny day, with excess melting. Pushing wheel chairs more challenging, as slope is a bit stepper than comfortable.Take some sun cream and water on a sunny day. However when we were there we needed gloves, warm hats and good windproofs as the windchill factor was very cold. Be warned the park interpretation centre below the hotel is not currently open until May 2014 and there is no signage to say when we visited, so only head up to the centre is you want one of their ice field buses or if you need a drink. The buses stop around 4pm. If you've never been close to the ice before, then walk down towards toe, or take one of the guided tours. You get a different type of experience on the bus ride onto the glacier. We didn't do this, as we've been on glaciers before in Europe and New Zealand."
Dropped in on our way to Banff and found that it was very easy to walk up to the sight seeing area to enjoy the view. If you've got time take a walk on the glacier.
"This is a very well organised tour across to the Columbia icefields. Can recommend. The monster bus is a lot of fun, but to step on the glacier was awesome. The glacial ice is so blue, it is eerie."
"Everyone who comes to Jasper, needs to see this. An enormous glacier... You can walk to the glacier, you can take the tour with a bus on the glacier or you can take a private tour with a guide.You will be amazed by this force of nature. But also think about is. The glacier shrinks at an enormous rate. Why? Well we are the reason... Tip; Do the walk. The 50 cad is not worth it imho."
We went on one of the red buses to see the glacier and it was really good. Yes you can park up and walk at the bottom of the icefield but to actually walk on it in a safe place I would highly recommend the red buses.
"You can either walk up to the icefield or take a tour on one of the vehicles to travel right onto it. The cost of the bus tour is $50 each, so rather than fork over the $200 for four of us, we chose to walk. It's not a hike you would want to do with any kind of physical limitations or a baby stroller. It's quite steep approaching. I've also never been so sun-burnt, I still have the tan lines months later. Bring your walking shoes, it's rough terrain. Definitely a beautiful view. Sad to see how much of it has melted though."
"Coming from Australia such massive sheets of ice was just unimaginable, and the temperature difference between the icefield and the information centre was unbelievable.
The Canadian flag was a ""fought"" over photo spot... maybe they need to put more in."
"The Columbia Ice Fields are an interesting and fascinating experience. These glaciers are disappearing, and it was a good learning time, to know more about something that is so old, but also disappearing."
This is a fascinating stop. Very interesting. Very nice visitor center. But . . . oh so commercial. Lots and lots of tour buses. Several excursions onto the ice. But far from the most enjoyable part of our trip to Jasper. There is a parking lot near the ice where you can stop and take a quick hike to see the ice.
"If you are at the Icefields, you simply must do this excursion. It will be the coolest bus ride you ever take!!The drivers are very knowledgeable and full of jokes and stories, and the bus is a real marvel. But the must do part is being able to walk around on the glacier. The views are incredible. And the feeling of knowing you are on a moving piece of ice that is several thousands of feet thick...well, it's really exciting!Here's a tip - Bring an empty water bottle or thermos so you can fill it with water right from a glacial stream!!"
"We drove through Ice Fields Parkway and were very impressed with the variety of places to stop and see. The tours stop at Ice Fields Center and Peyto Lake so expect crowds there but even there you can find near empty trails to get away from the crowds. There are waterfalls, the river and the mountains all around you. At one end is Lake Louise, a very touristy place and at the other end is Jasper, a much quieter town. We stayed at the Whistler Campground near Jasper but next year would like to dry camp at one of the many campgrounds along the Parkway and then go up to Jasper. if you go after Labor day the crowds have died down and many times you have the trails to yourself."
"By far not the nicest glacier to stop at but it was very big, the walk was only about 1km but was an effort. It was a popular spot and we were able to watch walking tour cross the deep and dangerous crevices! Well worth look but not a high light on the trip from Jasper to Banff."
This is a well organized and pleasant adventure. The information from the guides is fascinating and our chap was knowledgeable and amusing... good combination. My left foot went into the glacier up to my knee... and wow! was it cold! but that added to my adventure.
"Visited en route to Banff down the Icefields Parkway. Parking is free and there are lots of signs informing you about the glaciers receding, not to stand on the 'toe' and other dangers. There are also year markings telling you how much the glacier has thawed over the last 120yrs or so. I think what is required is perhaps a ranger or two's presence to answer any questions and also to keep an eye on the idiots who cross the barriers in search of a good photo. We saw one bloke blithely cross the ropes to get pictures whilst his kids watched from the main path. Why the rules didn't apply to him I don't know but it's no wonder accidents/deaths happen. Anyway, despite this we found it interesting, informative and worrying that a glacier can recede so much in a relatively short space of time thanks to global warming. If seeing that doesn't make you switch things off when you're not using them, nothing will."
"This was my first time on a glacier and it is an experience that has to be done if you are in this neck of the woods. The view from the Icefields Parkway was stunning enough but up close on the glacier itself, surrounded by other glaciers it is other-worldly.You get to spend ~ 25 minutes on the glacier and although you may think ""what do I do on a glacier for ½ hour"" the time goes so quickly. I was constantly photographing the whole area/experience but the visit was all too short.The Ice Explorer driver, Dave, was very friendly and knowledgable and added a lot to the experience.Mind you, his 'house' (the pumphouse) must get a little cold in winter :-)."
Beautiful sight right along the highway - it was overcast but the scene still stunning. Walked along and took pictures - had done glaciers before so did not take ride on glacier.
"Get there early to avoid long queues,we stopped on the way from Jasper to Banff, by the time we left it was so very busy. Well worth seeing, so much snow and ice and you have a chance to walk on the ice and take lots of photos."
Everyone should see the Icefields Parkway at least once. Walked to the foot of the glacier. Don't bother about the ride onto the glacier itself
"The whole experience is very efficiently run. We had pre- purchased tickets, so when we arrived at the ticket office we quickly collected our tickets and waited in line for the buses to take us up to the glacier. Along the way the driver provides some background on the history of the glacier until we arrive at the glacier where we were transferred to large all terrains vehicles that take you down this verrrrry steep incline and onto the glacier. You are taken to their preferred spot on the glacier where you have the opportunity to get out and walk on the glacier. A tip for travellers is to wear fully enclosed footwear and warm clothing as it can be quite cold and windy on the glacier. The fresh water from the glacier is drinkable. You can spend up to an hour out there depending on the weather. All in all something you would probably only experience once in your lifetime so go do it."
"It was pretty bad weather, as it was snowing and the first coaches left later. Everywhere was packed. The driver of our snow coach was very funny and getting out of the coach was a step into the wilderness, despite so many people!! The blizzard sent most people back into the coaches very quickly, but it's an amazing feeling, standing on 100m thick ice, surrounded by these huge mountains. I've savoured every minute!! Nature pure."
"THIS is a must while in the area, you can see the ice fields some what from the Hwy but stop, take a trail and check out the ice while walking on it. A real wonder."
If you have never been on a glacier here is the place to do it safely with these big buses. Even when passing by we stopped in the visitor center to check it out. Skip the food!
"Check out this big ole chunk of ice. This glacier is magnificent! We did not take the bus, we drove to the bottom and walked up."
"The view of the Columbia Icefield and one of its outlet glaciers, Athabasca Glacier, is one of the highlights of the Icefields Parkway, highway 93N between Lake Louise and Jasper. In over thirty years of living in the Canadian Rockies, I have only done the sno-coach tour once (and enjoyed it... have reviewed it here on TripAdvisor); it's definitely a fun experience, but not the only way to see the glacier. Hiking even partway up the Wilcox Pass trail gives an awesome view from across the valley, and the Parker Ridge trail just a little further south gives a spectacular view of the Saskatchewan Glacier, another of the outlet glaciers from the icefield, and its equally spectacular valley (which is not visible from the parkway). I highly recommend both hikes! But for those who don't wish to (or can't) hike, the views from the decks at the Icefield Centre are also stunning. It's also worthwhile parking down by the ""toe"" of the glacier, and walking up the short, interpretive trail."
"The weather was definitely not inviting. And possibly we have grown a bit blasé after seing REAL glaciers in Greenland and in Antarctica.But at any rate, the Columbia Icefield did not impress us as it actually did some 30 years ago, and we felt no urge to walk up to the ice lobes, which appeared just as black or grey as they were white."
Took a tour of the glacier on a sunny calm day but when we got up there the wind really picked up and it was freezing (-15c) but well worth it. The guides are very knowledgeable and friendly.
"We drove from Banff to Columbia Ice Field. The two-and-half-hour drive was very nice: few cars, majestic mountains and beautiful lakes. The visitor center has good facilities, and you can see five glaciers from the visitor center. We hopped on a bus for an 8-minute ride to the transfer station where we boarded an Ice Explorer with huge tires. The knowledgeable driver/guide told us about different glaciers and the terrain. We could open the window and take pictures of three glaciers. After about 15 minutes, we got off at the turnaround point, where we could walk on ice for 20 minutes. The scenery was breathtaking. Today the wind was strong, and it felt like sandblasting. But, we still take pictures with the flapping Canadian flag. The whole trip took about one hour and twenty minutes. Overall, it was a very enjoyable and worthwhile experience."
This was to be sure one of the highlights of our visit to Western Canada. Totally amazing and even the buses taking you on to the glacier are awesome. We had the most fabulous weather with deep blue skies which made for some great photo opportunities. Not to be missed
"Travelled Icefield Highway and just had to stop and see the Ice Field. While it is simply gorgeous to see, it is also saddening to see all the markers that indicate how much the Ice Field had melted and shrunk away. It was quite a hike up and down to where the Ice Field currently stands, so be prepared for that. It is not a treacherous hike, just strenuous and long. The view at the town below from the top is spectacular."
Had a great day but too many people on the ice at the same time.The spoiler ... when trying to take in the share beauty of where you are but surrounded by people/noise. Cafeteria was also packed but thank goodness they have large toilets (50+ stalls).The area is very beautiful.
"Visited the ice fields and took a trip up onto the glacier . It was a very surreal experience but very enjoyable. The guides were friendly and knew there stuff. We had stunning weather and the views were breathtaking, to stand on ice that was 1000 feet thick, with water running passed was somewhat disconcerting, but in no way distracted me from the fact this was something very special.The whole process was well organised and I felt safe at all times.If you ever get the chance to take this trip I fully recommend it."
"The bus ride is great, the guides are fun, the experience overall has been a little too sterilized for safety. If you've never walked on a glacier it is very fun. If you've done one in Alaska then this might be a bit of a let down. Brewster adventures tries hard. But the journey is great fun and then you are released into essentially a parking lot on the glacier and not allowed to venture off anywhere."
I always enjoy going to this place. The new facilities can make this a great stop. Sewing the time line of the ice fields to me is one of the best parts
A Brewster operated experience which means every detail has been carefully orchestrated. Our coach rolled-in to the Centre and we were quickly transferred onto a shuttle to the impressive Ice Explorer. The glacier itself is impressive even from our viewpoint on the leading edge. Buffet lunch was included and quite acceptable. A great experience.
"If you find yourself driving from Banff to Jasper, be sure to add some time to visit the Columbia Ice Field. How many times have you walked on a thousand feet [thick] of ice, and even had a chance to drink some of the most pure water you could possibly taste? And yes, it's safe to drink, so bring a bottle to fill.Also bring your camera, because it's an experience worthy of recording. It feels more like you're standing on another world, the views are so startling different and severe. While there, you can learn all about glaciers and ice fields, but unless you actually see it in person, you'll miss the wonder of discovery."
"The view of it when on the roadway was mind blowing. However, accessing it on the Ice Explorer Bus and walking on the glacier was one hell of an experience. If travelling to the Rockies - a visit is a must."
"Tip : try and get there in time to go on the first trip of the day, which was 9.30am, before all the tour buses get there. It also means that you will only be on the ice with a dozen people to start with. By the time we came off the glaciers the buses coming up were packed to the max. It was very educational and the time on the glacier was nice. We were worried that after having been on some serious glacier treks in Alaska we would be disappointed but still found it a valuable experience.TRY AND BRING your own food - the restaurant is massively overpriced for really bad food, and the cafe is even worse. For this reason DON'T stay at the hotel overnight. You have been warned!Our guide told us that the place has the world record for largest number of female toilets for one attraction, 68 or something. This gives you an idea of the volume of people during the middle of the day"
"We had estimated a 2:30hr drive between Banff & Jasper .... think again ... it took us all afternoon, kept having to stop and admire the beauty of the place. There are also a few short walks along the way that proved very photogenic ie Peyto Lake.I think I may had left a piece of my heart there !"
Well worth doing this. It's very unique. You are in awe of the whole experience. It's really well organized and the tour operators are very informative. You get plenty of time there as well. Put lots of clothes on...
Unbelievable to travel by the special vehicle on such a steep angle down to the ice fields for a cloeup view of the glacier.It is very educational about the action of the glaciers and how they plow and grind the earth.
I think this is a must do location while travelling to Japer/Lake Louise. This was our first experience on Glacier and it was quite mesmerizing to stand on a Glacier. We saw glacial water flowing all around us through small streams. The experience of riding on the special bus to the glacier was very exciting.
Did the Columbia Icefield explorer visit in Sept 13 and really enjoyed it. Forget thoughts of exploring this natural wonder on your own as you end up sharing the ice with a couple of hundred people at a time and 5 or 6 very large ice expiring vehicles. Notwithstanding all the people you will have no problems seeing the glacier tiers or playing in the snow - you spend about 25 mins of the 90 min tour on the ice.
The amount of people going there was huge but the tour onto the ice fields flowed well without a hitch & there was plenty of time to enjoy the view. The drivers/guides were great all with a good sense of humour.
"We visited the Columbia Ice Field recently while vacationing in Banff and Jasper. Since my field is geography, I was especially interested in viewing the glacier area as well as walking on a glacier. We visited at a time when it was not crowded and only had to wait a short time to board the bus. Our driver was very knowledgeable and could answer any questions. He pointed out some of the glacier features such as lateral and terminal moraines, alluvial fan, etc. We transferred to our ice bus and proceeded to the glacier. Again, our driver gave us a lot of information and could answer every question. We had about a half hour to walk on and explore the glacier. It was a very nice experience. I do feel it was a bit overpriced but had I not done this, I would have always regretted it. We got burgers, when we got back to the center, that were way overpriced. If possible I would suggest eating somewhere else - but the problem is, there really is nothing else nearby."
"It was an interesting experience riding on an ""Ice EXplorer"" to visit/walk around the ice fields of a glacier. But, given the receding of the gliacier one wonders whether such large vehicles should be traveling in numbers on a regular basis on the glacier. Just wondering!"
"We really enjoyed our visit to the Columba Ice Field. After buying our tickets, we queued for around thirty minutes before take the tour bus up to the glacier before boarding the ice buggy which took us on to the glacier. We spent around thirty minutes on the glacier within a defined perimeter, taking photographs and generally soaking up the scene.It was fairly cold and snowing on the day we visited in late September, so we were glad of our warm jacket, hat and gloves. We thoroughly enjoyed going up to the glacier and would recommend a visit highly if time allows."
"Standing on a glacier that is 600 feet deep is quite a memorable experience! Be sure to request Anne Brouilette for your Ice Field driver/narrator. In addition to being extremely knowledgeable and informative, she is equally passionate about the Ice Field's history and ongoing storyline. She has a true knack for delivering a most interesting tour of the glacier. John O'Carroll presented a most interesting and highly informative narrative during our bus ride back to the starting point. Don't pass up this worthwhile, 80 minute start to finish experience. It will leave a lasting impression on you."
"My husband is a professional photographer and luckily we had a good weather day for our visit to the Icefields. It was a special trip for my birthday. We took our time, stopped at many vistas along the way, had a picnic lunch near the Saskatchewan Crossing on the riverbank and, of course, it was a photographer's dream. Truly spectacular. We have been here many times before and each time gets better as there is just so much to see and cover in one day."
"What views all the way, take your time as there are so many stop offs. We travelled up and back stopping at Jasper, Lake Moraine and Canmore, then back to Jasper. Really glad we did as it is hard to take in all the beauty surrounding you plus it gave us time to do a couple of hikes."
"You travel from the center by bus to the location where you pick up your ice buggy. (There are only 23 in the world. 22 are there.) The buggy takes you down a 30+ degree grade to the glacier. There is a specifically outlined location where you able to walk. While the buggies move slowly, it gives you time to view the terrain. Our guide filled an empty water bottle, so we could taste glacier water. I never thought I'd ever be on one more less taste it. Since they are predicting the glacier will be gone in a few years, make it a definite stop on your trip to the rockies. I'm glad we can say we did."
"Expensive. Long lines. Waited for 45 minutes to get in a bus that took you to the snow cats (bus with different type of wheels) and they drove on the glacier with some good information from the guide. Dropped us off in high winds and freezing temps to slip and slide on the glacier for 15 minutes and back to snow cats and then to bus. I would have rather done the hiking tour that we passed on our way up. They don't advertise that option as you walk in the facility. That looked more interesting. In Wisconsin, we stand on ice and snow everyday. Not a glacier but feels the same and we dont pay $60.00 a person for the experience!"
"First time that we have been on an Ice Field, very interesting, we had a very guide, who explained everthing."
"If you're in this area of Canada you have to drive the Parkway. And it's not everyday you get to walk on a glacier. So it is worth stopping at the Ice Field centre and paying a visit. We took the 90 minute bus tour up onto the glacier, which included around 20 minutes on the ice to walk around (a unique experience if you've never done it), admire the views (which were stunning) and take pictures.The only disappointment was the popularity of the tour and number of people, as the crowds spoilt the tranquilty of the location. We did the tour at lunchtime in the middle of the holiday season so I'd recommend trying to visit at a more quieter time (e.g. earlier in the morning or later in the day).Our tour guide / bus driver was well informed on glaciers, how they are formed and the physical signs they leave on the terrain. He also passed around a number of photos and information sheets that I really liked - if only geography lessons at school were that interesting! The centre itself is a tourist trap - an overpriced gift shop and poor canteen style restaurant add nothing to the experience, so stop for the glacier, the views and not the centre and then picnic somewhere else along the parkway!"
The glacier is very good. One must take trekking guided tour on glacier which departs every morning and afternoon. It was one of the best experience of my life. I never thought glacier can be so interesting. Our guide Shauna was very good.
"Icefield Visit is not cheap but it must be done. Trip on the enormous Ice ""Buggies"" to the glacier and to walk on this declining phenomenon is breathtaking.
Drinking the glacier water flow is a must do."
"This is an unusual experience and worth the trip. The complex is crowded and busy and is not kept clean due to the volume. The trip up to the icefield is short about 8 min and informative. Walking on the ice is limited to an area marked and maintained to avoid holes, etc. Food at the cafeteria is a little on the high side but reasonable for an attraction. The ice vehicles are large and travel down a steep grade 30% + to reach the glacier"
You need at least six-eight hours to drive the Colombia Ice Field and stop at the viewpoints. It is well worth doing the Athabasca Glacier tour
"The Columbia Glacier can be accessed from the side of the road on the Icefield Parkway. You can park and walk to the base of the glacier if you do not have a lot of time or you can take a tour. There are a couple of choices for a tour, the ""Ice Explorers"" specially designed busses which go right on to the glacier and with wheels as tall as most people or a guided ice walking tour. On the opposite side of the road to the glacier there is the very informative Discovery Centre with restaurants, accommodation and gift shop.We live in Alberta and first visited this glacier about 30 years ago and it is amazing and alarming to watch how much it has receded in that time. Another of the wonders to stop and see on the drive along The Icefield Parkway."
Never though I would set foot on a glacier but the trip was excellent. The guides were very knowledgeable and the views have to be seen
"My husband loved this attraction, because he got to ride in the $1.2 million six-wheeled vehicle to get out on the glacier. I thought it was interesting, and I'm glad we did it. But it's pretty expensive (about $110 for two people) and once you get out to the glacier you get a 1/2 hour to do...uh...what? Walk around on the ice and take pictures. Then drive back. I'm glad we did it, but I wouldn't do it again. Our guide, Rex, was great, and that made it much better. And remember, it's REALLY cold out on the glacier, so make sure you dress appropriately - gloves, heavy coat and earmuffs if you have them."
a pretty cool experience walking on a huge piece of ice. riding the modified bus was a cool experience too. the tour is pricey but it's well worth it for a once in a lifetime experience.
"The road-trip alone (Highway 93) is staggering. By the time you reach the icefield, you are breathless. Sensory overload of the very best kind! The glacier and surrounding mountains are something out of a fantasy world or fairy tale. Photos simply cannot convey the majesty. Take the Brewster icefield bus, it's worth it. Oh, and it is cold, even in mid-summer so dress warm. You can always spot us Canucks, we're the ones in shorts and a t-shirt standing on the ice but that's normal for us. Not so much if you're traveling from warmer climes."
"We have been on the ice field trip before but it was to be the first experience for our daughter who was really looking forward to walking on the glacier. We arrived around 12.30, had bite to eat, then went to the ticket desk and bought our tickets at 13.25. Previously you could book a time to travel to the glacier but this is no longer possible so we joined the queue at 13.45. There are signs saying buses run every 15 to 30 minutes. After waiting in line for an hour we realised that Brewster tours (who run the ice field tours) were giving preference to their tour buses that were arriving while we were waiting.At 15.00 we gave up and returned to the ticket desk for a refund. When my daughter said it was a once in a lifetime experience the person at the desk said ""you can wait''. We feel that Brewster tours should consider people who turn up independently and go back to the timed ticket system and not just consider their tour bus passengers."
Nice experience. the tour guides were informative. would recommend bringing a cup or container to collect the water since it is like the fountain of youth
"My husband and I combined this with Banff Gondola to save money. I am glad we did it even though it cost a lot. Doing it once though is enough. It takes about 90 minutes. First you get to take a bus up to the glacier area and then you transfer to the other transportation. You are allowed to walk around for 20 minutes within the area they have set up. It is very cold and windy so bring gloves, hats and jackets. It can get slippery so wear good shoes. We brought and empty water bottle and broke the ice to get some glacier water. The water was cold and tasted wonderful. Don't forget your camera!"
If you have never been on glacier or really Ice Field before this is well worth it and you can sort of take it off your bucket list. You can buy a combo ticket for this and the Banff Gondola to save a few dollars. It is questionable perhaps if they should be encouraging the visitors to drink the ice melt water. The overall tour was excellent and I highly recommend it.
"Every time we're there the cost has gone up so this time we didn't take the tour. If you've never done the tour it is amazing and I recommend it at least once. If you find the tour too expensive there is a parking lot by the toe of the glacier and a path where you can walk to the toe. Wear good shoes as some parts are steep. The food in the cafeteria is not very good and the restaurant was closed. On our way home we stopped at The Crossing and the food was much better. They also remodeled the center and now it's really modern and doesn't fit with the beauty of outside. I was told they were getting a Tim Horton's but didn't see one. Remember you're going to see ICE so dress warm even if you don't plan on taking the tour. Wear good shoes if you are doing the tour, the glacier is slippery and cold and sometimes slushy if the sun is out. There is also a company that does Ice Walks, I did it years ago and it was amazing, I booked it through the hotel a few days in advance."
"We skipped this last year because of the cost, but glad we went this year. This is really neat, a once in a life time event, with neat ice machines to get you on the ice, and some fun.......Spluge if you must."
Took this tour and we were not disappointed. It was well organised with great guides once you are on the glacier. They take you part the way up in a coach then they transfer you onto a 6 wheeled ice vehicle which is so much fun. The glacier is spectacular and with the information from the guide you can appreciate the part global warming has on this magnificent glacier. Bit cold so wear a few layers. You can walk around by yourself and the ice looks amazing. There is a huge visitor centre there with restaurants etc.
"A trip through the Rockies requires a walk on the Columbia Icefield Glacier Dress warmly, even on a sunny day. The tour was excellent and the guides very informative, they made up for the gouging that Parks Canada provides in the way of food (closest competitor about 100 km away). Beware of the Jasper Welcome Site Restaurant.-- bring your own sandwiches - a bowl of soup and a sandwich can easily cost over $20. The Glacier tour is thrilling and made it worthwhile. But take the tour at the Welcome Site and drive up the highway on your own as there are many viewing sites, a least a dozen -- the bus tour from Banff only stops once or twice -- so allow yourself about 4 hours to drive this 150 km road because you will stop often and be overwhelmed along the way...But as glorious as the road sites are, the Icefields are even more magnificent."
Great attraction to get up and close with the glacier even if it is mass tourism. Our driver was from Australia and he was both informative but also very quirky and funny which made the trip that much better. The operational aspect of how they control the passengers getting up to the glacier is good.
"Visiting Athabasca glacier is a fantastic experience and one that shouldn't be missed if in the area. As the tour guide advises its the only glacier in the world which can be accessed by coach.The visitors centre is quite comprehensive and has a nice cafe, views all round are stunning. A coach transfers visitors part of the way up the mountain to a small transfer station where passengers are transferred over to the special coaches that drive onto the glacier. These coaches are something special in themselves and the drivers are very informative and ours was also very witty, definitely adding value to the whole experience.pedestrian access onto the glacier for about 20 minutes is allowed and as you would expect its very cold and slippy. Quiet a few people took an empty water bottle with them to collect the fresh water running down the side of the glacier but it can be quite awkward to do this because of the ice and the position of the flowing water - everyone we saw doing it complained bitterly about how cold the water was if they put their bare hand into it.Great views and a fantastic experience getting to walk on a glacier and would certainly recommend it. Would also suggest getting there early as it gets very busy and the earlier you get there the faster the transfer is and there are fewer people on the glacier"
"The glaciers visible from the highway are rapidly receding, and in late summer and fall take on a rather dingy appearance; however, the weather in early September is nearly perfect!"
Take the ice walker from the Glacier view inn and walk around on the glacier. Got to do it at least once in your life a must do..
"trip onto the Glacier worth every cent. Was really different and informative. Our driver was great. Lodge however leaves a lot to be desired,"
Great place to see a glacier up close. For a fee you can even ride in a special big-tired buggy onto a glacier.
We had a good experience with the bus tour. The tour guides were very funny. The walk on the glacier was an awesome experience.
"This has received such great reviews which meant our expectations were high, but it was such a disappointment. The drivers were lovely but for the 15minutes you are out on the glacier, it's not worth the $50 per person."
"From the ticket booths, we rode a shuttle bus to the foot of the icefields, part of the Canadian Rockies covered with thick ice mass. From the bus we were transferred to a hugh ice explorer with massive tires. The tour took about an hour and a half as we were allowed to get down on the icefield and take pictures. There was clean clear running water in some areas where you could see how deep the glacier is. Fantastic view of the Rockies and the Continental Divide. It was indeed an awesome once-in-a-lifetime experience! Highly recommended."
"I have been coming to this site for the past ten years and even in that short period of time I have seen major glacial retreat. Markers show you how the glacier has retreated since 1900 or so. Still, it is impressive, although geologists estimate it will be a verdant forested area within 100 years. Dress warmly!"
"This was a really awesome experience...right down to riding the bus and crawling on the glacier. It was an interesting ride and I'm glad the bus driver was able to tell us about the glacier and answer questions. Everyone was professional and friendly, and now I can say I've walked on a glacier. The lines are LONG so get there early. It is amazing how crowded this stop on the Ice Fields Parkway can be. You board the bus and it takes about 10 minutes to ride over to the glacier, and then you get 20 mins to walk around on the glacier, you can even bring your own bottle and grab and drink the melting glacier water. We went mid-august, it gets cold and windy on the glacier so be sure to dress warmly for this. My only quip is I wish we had more than 20 mins to walk on the glacier...by the time you get all the pictures you want (it gets crowded on the glacier too and it's hard to get a picture without tons of tourists in the background) so by the time you are finished taking pictures, you don't get much time just to relax and enjoy the experience. 25-30 mins would be a little more appropriate, considering it costs $50/person. But it was great fun and hope to get to do it again someday!"
"This was one of the most interesting spots on the parkway. I recommend the Brewster ice explorer ride just for the fun, steep descent to the glacier from the road."
The glacier is very impressive and the changing colours hues is a marvel. The guide was very imformative and gave the impression he loved his job. It is hard to believe the workings of these arts of nature and would hate to see them disappear in the future. The food at the cafe wasn't impressive but it filled the gap.
"To come this far and NOT to visit the Icefields would be like going to Paris and missing out on the Eiffel tower! You've spent the time and money to come this far, so spend a little more on go up on the snowcoaches! The glacier is vanishing fast! It is an unforgettable experience! Bring extra clothes because the weather can and does change within minutes."
This is certainly one of the most spectacular experiences of the Canadian Rockies trip based on the feelings of both myself and my wife. Not at all what I expected. I was surprised at how treacherous it was. The guide was informative and funny.
"How often to you get to park your car, then walk 15 minutes up to a glacier? My wife and I enjoyed seeing this glacier up close. Melting streams flowing beneath and blue color in the ice where a chunk fell out of the glacier. Seeing the posted signs indicating where the glacier was 10, 20, 30 years ago was also informative. A must stop."
"On the glacier walk when Peter the guide said in a seductive soft voice follow me I was almost prepared to fall down a crevasse! Seriously he was a great guide who showed us the marvels of the rapidly retreating glacier and explained all about the ice, the geology and what is happening currently. I did not notice the time pass and was surprised how easy it was to walk on the ice with the special wires fitted to my boots. Softies go in the buses - adventurers WALK on the ice."
"granted i haven't been to this site in over 20 years, but the glacier is still very accessible and is an easy way to get up close to one. it seems to be shrinking quickly, so if its on your ""to-do"" list i would try to see it before it shrinks down to just a mediocre size"
"You have to know that walking on a real ice field is going to be amazing - the scenery, the chance to see real glacial ice up close, seeing huge moraines all around - but I hadn't expected the guides to make it so much fun! The bus drivers who told stories or bad jokes; Dave who drove the Ice Explorer and even at the end of a long day was still having fun - it was infectious. My at-first-skeptical teenager had a blast - can't get much more of a recommendation than that."
"Good to stop by the visitor centre and take pics from the upper balcony. If you feel like going on the ice to take pictures, then it will cost you $50 pp to do so. Personally, I prefer spending that money on gondola rides in Whistler or Banff"
Just amazing to see this natural phenomenon! There are markers labeling the progress of the recession of the glacier. I wish there had been a park ranger there to ask questions of though.
"It's very touristy and it's amazing. If you don't mind a lot of other tourists there with you and the guilt that your presence is not helping the glacier one bit, then it's a must do. $50/head (with 15% off with CAA/AAA) well spent.The drive to the place from Banff is as impressive as the destination itself. 732000 rental RVs can't be wrong:) At least there are a few opportunities to pass them."
"Rather sad looking glacier. For something good, go a few kilometers south and hike the Parker Ridge trail to see a spectacular glacier."
"I have been to this area 4 times now and it never ceases to amaze me the beauty of this area. If you are a photographer, this is well worth a visit. The different lighting affects on the mountains and the glaciers are spectacular. Don't miss the opportunity to go out on the Glacier itself - it is receding and estimates are that in 80 years it will no longer be there."
Enjoyed stopping in at the ice field to view the glacier and read about the history. The walk up to the glacier is moderately difficult but worth the hike. Its amazing to see the year markers and how much the glacier is melting. Sad to think the glaciers may not be around in the years to come.
"we recently went to the ice field for the second time while living in alberta and within 5 years I can tell you I see a difference in my pictures, Please get a chance to see this before it has lost its beauty. Very cold once you get out so bring a coat and long pants if adventuring on the the glacier!"
"We traveled up to the icefield/glacier in one of the large ice explorers up a steep mountain to the bottom of the glaciers. We were allowed to get out of the vehicle and walk on the 1000 year old blue glacial ice. Amazing, but slippery and wet so watch your step! It is very obvious to see how the glaciers are melting/receding. Global warming or??? I wonder how long Canada will allow these tours as each tour does a little more damage to the glacier. Glad for the chance to experience this now before it is too late!"
"It is a beautiful site and worth seeing, but from my perspective, taking the special shuttle (which is big and heavy), felt like we were contributing to the downsizing of the glacier. If we add to that the amount of people that are steps on it and takes the melting water every summer, makes it even worse. People might not be aware of the amount of damage we might be causing and it´s just not right.Although it is interesting to be in an icefield, the whole way we were driving through the glacier felt like I was hurting something precious. I recommend to go and visit the site, but see it from afar. Taking the shutte might seem like a nice attraction, but I think the consequences will be terrible in the mid-liong term!I went 30 years ago and remember it being so much bigger. It is very sad to see it melting this fast..."
We took time on the drive from Jasper to Lake Louise to stop at the Columbia Ice Field visitors center. It was a good place to eat on the long drive south. After lunch we decided not to take the touristy ride on the Ice Explorer but to drive across the road and hike to the glacier. It was a good decision and we very much enjoyed the short hike up to the glacier walking on rocks that were crushed and moved by the glacier. You could see the marks made as the glacier moved over the rocks and could get a good feel for the power of the glacier. It was extremely windy and somewhat cold so we put on jackets and had a great hour exploring. Have fun and hike to the glacier.
"Last saw the ice fields 15 years ago and could not believe how much they have shrunk. For a first time experience, it may be OK but in my opinion it is poor value."
"Great to see, amazing sites although very busy, sort of felt like an airport transfer experience..... Guides amazing, very friendly & knowledgable & really worked the tours...."
"We stopped at the Ice Field as part of a motorcoach tour from Jasper to Lake Louise. We didn't have to wait for a bus or the Ice Explorer. The commentary on the bus and Ice Explorer was very interesting. Walking on the glacier was cold and slippery and since we had previously walked on a glacier in Norway was no big surprise. This was part of our package, so I'm not sure it would be worth the money if you had to wait in line and pay cash. The scenery all the way from Jasper to Lake Louise was nothing short of spectacular."
"Wow, what a delight, to drive along here and experiecne the changing landscape, is a must do activity that will suit families and individuals perfectly"
"We didn't do any of the tours, but just stopping and gazing at the scenery here is worth it. Truly gorgeous setting, and the accessibility of the glaciers and icefields is bonus."
Bring a sweatshirt! We went at the end of August and it was downright cold on that glacier (obviously). Take the tour that takes you out on the ice fields - it's worth the trip. Don't forget to bring your bottle to fill up on some ice cold glacier water!
"This was just amazing. My parents did this almost 20 years ago and still remember it so I was looking forward to it but it was even better than I expected. Very knowledgeable drivers who explain the glaciers around, depth, etc. The weather was perfect the day we visited so brilliant sunshine to really set off the scenery. We walked away from the crowds a little and you really get a sense of the size and depth of the glacier. Take a couple of layers with you as you'll need them while out if the bus but you only get about 20-30 mins on the glacier so not time to get too cold. Take an empty cup with you so you can drink glacier water."
"This is another great spot to visit along the Icefield's Parkway. Be prepared to have to drive around in the parking lot for a while to find a spot. If you have mobility challenges, there is a drop off in the lot where the buses park. There are a lot of stairs to get up to the discovery center. If you don't purchase your tickets ahead of time, anticipate waiting a least an hour or two depending on how many bus tours are ahead of you. Great spot for pictures."
"Possibly a once-in-a lifetime opportunity to walk on a glacier. Yes, a bir pricey, but a worthwhile experience. Guides gave an interesting intro on the drive out. Kids got a big kick out of filling up water bottles with glacial melt. Went towards the end of the day, and glad we did. Not crowded; pretty light. Restaurant in lodge/facility is pricey, but a convenient stop and the food was fairly good."
"It was exciting to be able to walk on a glacier but the trip was too short and kinda lame. If you havnt seen a glacier, it may be worth it to spend this much money but I have gone to Alaska twice and have seen the most beautiful glaciers. So this really didn't justify the money I spent on this!"
"You should never drive by the Athabasca Glacier, which is what you see from the road and is commonly referred to as the Columbia Icefields. We have a young family and so found the bus to expensive and the hike too long but let me say the 2km walk around the toe of the glacier is just phenomenal. Even more so are the signs that are laid out telling you about glacier, and about how far and how fast it is receding. For all those that think about global warming, this alone is an education and my kids, who will come to their own conclusions in time, at least are able to comprehend what it means when they hear about global warming. More shocking to me was the consistent signed about the dangers of walking on the glaciers, the amount of failed rescues and loss of childrens life. I guess I really didn't understand how dangerous glaciers could be even if you just walked on the first few meters ... yet there were plenty of people jumping the barriers and doing just that. Perhaps I will end where I should have began ... the glacier itself. It is stunningly beautiful. It is huge (though smaller than it once was) and it is melting a steady stream of an icy cold water flowing into a lake. You can see where it has deposited rocks, you can see where it has made rock as smooth as glass and you can see blue ice sparkling below some of the rock deposits. I will end where I started ... you should not drive by this wonder under any circumstance !"
"Rather than parking at the Icefields Centre and riding the ice coach, we opted to drive down towards the glacier and then hike in to the toe. You can book a walking tour of the glacier with a guide. There are walks at 10 and 1:30. The tours were booked fully so we couldn't get on one but wish we had. The tour leads you right up on to the ice. Without a tour guide, we just walked up the short but rather steep path. Take a camera that shoots panoramas!! The wind blows very heavily and is cold. I was grateful I had packed something to cover my head and ears, the wind would have given me an ear ache."
We took the Brewster bus from Calgary and stopped at the glacier and opted to go out onto the ice on their bus. Glad we did. So cool (literally) and worth it.
"We originally signed up to do the 3 hour hike on the glacier but due to weather, it was cancelled. However, we took the sno coach ride out on the glacier and were very happy we did. Got to fill our water bottles from ice cold glacier water which was neat."
What an amazing treat to see and learn about before it is gone forever. They process the people relatively quick. It is an exciting trip up.
"It's kinda cute standing on a glacier but nothing special. You can drive to the base of it for free and walk up on it, although you dont get near to where the ice vehicles will take you."
"I had been wanting to see the Ice Fields for a while and I was glad we did. We took the tour and the guides we had very very informative and funny. Our bus driver was Bob and he cracked me up. For the Ice explorer was had Matthew and he did a great job and was very environmentally friendly and concerned about protecting the glacier.The Brewster's tour was great for people who can't walk far as there was little walking involved. On my own I might have just walked myself, but I enjoyed the ride. You also get up much farther with the tour and are able to drink the glacial water if you so desire. They say it makes you look ten years younger. ;)It was a good experience and I'm glad I went."
"less then 20 years ago, the ice was near the road. Now it's quite far and running out fast. the trip in the snow-machine is fun, but it takes longer and longer to get to anywhere impressive enough to be worth the money (quite expensive). Do your research before embarking on the trip. you can just park and walk a bit. it's worth the drive, as the mountains and the road itself are quite impressive."
We learned so much on our Ice Walk (not the snowcoach). Our guide Joss was amazing (and very nice looking). We had a small group and you have to be in decent shape for the walk. But you will learn so much about glaciers. Take the 3 hours and do it. And don't forget to tip your guide.
After reading other reviewd beforehand we decided to skip the buses and take the walk at the end of the glacier. We're glad we did. You could see all that you wanted to and read all about the glacier from the area permitted for viewing and walking. Did look a bit like a large frozen parking lot in the winter. Ice was not shiny and it was drizzling the day we were there. Interesting to see but not a must in my books.
"We splurged for the icefield bus, and were glad that we did. The bus takes you from the Ice Fields centre up a windy, steep road to a second location. There, you board a specially-made vehicle that takes you right to a safe, cleared spot on the glacier. You have ample time to look around and take photos. The temperature that day was about 30 celsius, but the temperature on the glacier was only about 5. We had dressed appropriately, but many tourists hadn't. You need a proper coat, long pants, and socks and shoes, at minimum. You could also comfortably add mitts and a toque. There is a constant wind on the glacier.The drivers of the ice explorer and the bus were both entertaining and informative, adding much to the experience of walking on the glacier.The glacier is not really accessible to those with mobility issues. The terrain is very uneven and slippery.Visitors can view the glacier from the bottom for free, and can also hike the glacier for free. But if you're looking for a tour of the glacier, the ice explorer is worthwhile."
"I recently organized a trip through the Rockies for 45 travellers from 5 countries. The Ice Explorer onto the Columbia Icefield was one of the highlights. Our guide was knowledgeable and fun, and answered all our questions. I was not sure it would be that interesting since I have visited the Icefields many times before. But it was fun to be out on the ice, and the photos of the deep blue caves in the glaciers were beautiful. Plus, I learned a lot of about glaciers. It is definitely worth going. Unfortunately, we had to cut our visit short since it began to rain out on the glacier after we had only been out a short time. Be sure to wear a warm jacket -- it can be quite cold, even in the middle of the summer! If you choose to just visit the base of the glacier without paying to go up on the Ice Explorer, be sure to look for the markers along the walking trail that show how far the glacier has receded over the years. It is amazing how much it has shrunk but is still so massive."
Stopped here for lunch on our scenic drive from Jasper to Banff and it was well worth the couple of hours we spent here exploring the visitor centre and enjoying a scenic walk. Car park was packed but it's only a short walk to get away from the crowds and enjoy the awesome views.
"we booked 'Ice Cubed"" a 3 hr walk with a guide across the glacier. The guide watched everyone for safety reasons where they were walking, in our 14 people group, we walked a bit, talked about the glacier, then walked some more, and he gave us an education on glaciers.There are streams running thru the top of the glacier(I always thought it melted from the bottom) and we got to see crystal blue crevasses. I found walking was difficult due to the up and down of the top of the glacier. It was cold-altho we wore jeans,hiking boots, a short sleeve, shirt, long sleeve, 2 fleece(light) jackets, winter hat and gloves.There is a constant wind down the glacier. Altho I thought this was good, my 17 yr old son thought it was boring and did not enjoy this.So don't take upper teens!The 20 yr olds with me all liked it.!Food was ok in the visitor center. Tons of people coming up for the Explorer ride,via busses.(This would be good for the elderly or the family with young kids) IF you can walk, do the glacier walk."
"This was a most unique attraction I had the experienced in a long time!This journey on the Ice Explorer onto the Athabasca Glacier was amazing! The Columbia Icefield is the largest icefield in the Canadian Rockies. It is surrounded by 11 of the Rockies' 22 highest peaks. The Columbia Icefield is composed of 8 major glaciers and spans an area of 325sq km and is 365m thick. The ice straddles the Continental Divide, 2 provinces and 2 national parks. The snow here accumulates and turns to ice. It melts and flows to feed 6 major outlet glaciers, 3 of the largest rivers in Canada which eventually flow into 3 oceans. Remember to bring a extra sweater or jacket as it is quite cold on the glacier, even in August! Very important is to wear rubber soled shoes as glaciers can be slippery! It is open from mid-April to mid-December.Tors depart from the Icefield Centre every 15-30minutes."
"Maybe because it wasn't busy in a Friday PM, but we did have access by car to the base of the glacier, the closest parking lot to walk up the glacier base after. It's a very little 2 km return walk to the base of the glacier and it is so beautiful, magic and some places, the ice is so pure and blue, wow!You can see along the road between the highway and the parking lot where the glacier was sitting in 1908, 1925 an so on. Ouch, not sure our children or grand children will get to see it, sad but true."
"We stopped here on the way to Jasper from Banff. The drive along the icefield highway is awe inspiring but don't stop at the interpretation centre if you hope to learn anything. Unlike the Parks Canada centres in and near the national parks, this is a privatized commercial hub intended to service the Brewster bus tours, sell tickets for onsite excursions and sell tawdry souvenirs. The interpretation centre is easily accessible from the parking lot which is reserved for tour buses but NOT easily accessible from the parking provided for cars and RV's. Once inside, there is really nothing of interest. We took a photo and drove on finding traffic on the highway ahead to be constrained by the construction of Brewster's new suspended viewing platform. A disappointment for sure ~"
"We visited the Columbia Ice fields as part of a transfer excursion from Jasper to Banff. The trip on the Ice Explorer over the Glacier was exciting and the staff made it a memorable experience. The food at the Ice field centre was very average, busy and rushed. I was really disappointed with the visitor centre too as I had been there 8 years ago and remember the visitor centre having lots of interesting information on the geology and history of the ice field and area but could not see any information at all...unless I missed it somehow!"
it is awe inspiring and tragic at the same time. From here rivers flow to Hudson's Bay and The Arctic Ocean. These icefields are an important source of fresh water for most of the Canadian Prairies and it is tragic to see how much the field has shrunk during our lifetime.
"Our family did the tour of the ice field and were totally in awe of the experience! It was a highlight of the trip and a must do if you are in the area. Yes, the visitor centre was crowded with bus tours, but as a drive up visitor, not on a tour, we purchased our tickets ( we redeemed air miles and had air miles coupons for our tickets) and walked on the bus with NO delay. Bus drivers were awesome and very knowledgable about the glacier area- we learned a lot on the drive there and back. Our visit to the glacier including the bus rides was about an hour and a half. Wear warm clothes as it is cold up there and be sure to drink the glacier water!"
"We came here in a large motorhome with two grandchildren. First of all, we were not allowed to park in the large bus parking lot (that is reserved for tour buses only) which is at the top, right next to the main building. Cars and motorhomes have to park DOWN about 1/4 mile and walk up to the main building. The motorhome lot is small and busy. The day we visited was overcast, foggy, very windy and cold so we took a pass on the expensive glacier tour bus. On the other side of the highway, there is a minuscule parking lot (which we mistakenly took with the motorhome after being directed by a lot attendant and could barely get out of), where one can buy raincapes to take a trek up the side of the glacier. No thanks. Take a picture from the parking lot and move on."
"We drove the 103 km to visit the icefields. We paid $49.50 to take the snow bus onto the icefield. It is an experience to stand on a glacier. Just lovely. But take a coat (and gloves). Glaciers are really, really cold!"
loved this place so different to where I come from in perth western Australia . We didn't go to the visitors centre just spent time walking on the ice .It certainly a much bigger trek than it looks from the starting point but well worth the walk. Think If I ever go back It would be well worth taking one of the busses out. But a must see either way!!
"The visitor center is a nice building, although probably a little difficult for the impaired. It allows a view of the glacier and is the point of departure for the tours of the ice where you can get out and walk on the ice. It is very crowded with tourists from around the world. A melding of tongues, but worth the visit."
"We took the organised trip - very busy. But the driver was interesting and entertaining. To be able to walk on a glacier was a first for us and it was an amazing experience. We were surprised to be able to see all the different colours in the ice. The only downside was the visitor centre which is the most shambolic park centre I have ever seen, the noise and sheer number of people was ridiculous. Marked down because of the visitor centre otherwise very good."
A busy but well organised visit. 'Driver Barbie' was a hoot! The experience of walking on a glacier was a high point of our visit.
"It has been forty years since we had been to the Ice Fields....They have changed considerably. We chose to hike up was easy enough, lots of spots to stop and read interesting facts along the way. The tour looked awesome as well but our grandson wanted to run and climb."
"We did ""Ice Cubed"" with Icewalks. This is a 3 hour trip walking on the glacier with a guide. We were in a group of 12 led by a great kiwi guy called Joss. The trip was amazing and away from the commercialised bus tours. We learned a lot about the history of the glacier and the geology of the area! The glacier was awesome with icy rivers running over it, deep crevasses to peer into and beautiful blue water. We filled our drinks bottles with the icy water. It was cold, so come well prepared, and we needed crampons, supplied by the company. Gloves, hats, coats and boots also supplied if necessary.We arrived early in the day when it was quiet but by lunchtime, when we finished, the main car parks were very busy with a lot of people walking to the base of the glacier or taking a bus tour."
"Having flown into glaciers in Alaska, my expectations were not very high for this attraction. And this met my expectations. The glacier you access is relatively small. The crowds are overwhelming and the commercialization at the visitor center is unlike any I have ever seen in a National Park. Extremely crowded, expensive, noisy, congested, etc. Plus lots of tour buses. We ate lunch there. I recommend you pack your own. Food very expensive and not as good as a McDonalds."
"The obvious result of having such a beautiful view is that the place is crowded, especially the Icefield Centre. It does however cope admirably with the volume of visitors, albeit that the food offering is based on volume and speed, rather than quality.Walked to the glacier, rather than rode."
"So amazing to walk on a glacier. Starts out on a regular bus that takes you to close to the glacier. Then you transfer over to a special bus called an ice explorer. The drivers make it so fun due to their sense of humor. We had an Australian guy that was a hoot! Once you're driven onto the glacier, they give you about 20-25 minutes to walk around. Make sure you bring an empty water bottle with you, as there are little rivers and waterfalls you can drink the water from. It is the coldest, best tasting water ever! The whole adventure takes about 1 hour and 20 minutes. Fantastic experience! Plus, just the drive on the Icefields Parkway was gorgeous: glaciers everywhere, mountains, turquoise lakes, waterfalls, and wildlife. We saw 3 black bears! You have to do this!!!!"
"We visited the athabasca glacier whilst in the area a must do if you visit ,wonderful scenery and superb views on and off the glacier.
Go do it it may not be there much longer!!!"
"Walking on the glacier was exciting, interesting and unique! The operation is run smoothly and takes about an hour or so. Bring an empty bottle to capture some of the glacier water that is running. It is drinkable and icy fresh! This experience was a definite highlight of my trip!"
Go early! We got there early and when we came back from the trip it was like a airport so crazy. First you take a bus to a bus station where you take a tundra bus to the massive glacier. Bring an empty water bottle and then a glove to hold it. Also don't forget good shoes. This was extremely remarkable.
"We learned so much. James, our tour guide was superb! He was funny, well versed and very helpful. He certainly knew what he was talking about! The views were stunning ... it's a ""must do""! I would certainly do it again!"
the whole area is great. the bus is clean and courteous. the giant monster truck they drive onto the ice is really impressive. friendly staff. knowledgeable. fun and adventurous. must do!
No other people around when we hiked there. The air smelled like we were the only people who breathed up there. You could see for 100 miles!
Not sure I can add more then previous comments but this is a not to be missed visit. Where else can you go on an ice field that big in North America?
"We had bought tickets for the tour onto the Athabasca Glacier in Jasper so did not have to line up to get tickets as we were told it is very busy sometimes, The trip from Jasper along the Columbia Ice Field Highway was astounding, fantastic scenery , glaciers , lots of snow on majestic mountain tops, nature in it's magnificence . When we got to the Ice Fields Centre we were quickly put on a bus and taken out close to the glacier. We were then put onto special low geared ice buses with huge wheels and worth about 1.3 million each. These buses took us slowly out onto the Athabasca Glacier to a designated area where we got off to walk around on the ice. What a treat that was, The glacier had a nice blue tinge to it and there was a little stream where you could drink the water , very refreshing. The depth and size of the glacier are mindboggling but we were told that since 1840 the glacier has receeded 1.5 kilometres as it was right down to where we came from the carpark. from what we have been told here in Canada & Alaska the Glaciers have been receeding for hundreds of years. The bus driver was a bit of a comedian but also very informative. It was spectacular out there looking at the nearby mountains and looking back down the valley to the ice centre. Great for photos. Dress warm with good boots for on the ice. When the tour had concluded we had a picnic in the car park as they have tables and chairs there. It was just brilliant having lunch looking up at the glacier and a nearby mountain with a massive amount of snow right on it's peak making it look like a giant Boston Bun. Not a cheap tour but it is something you cannot do every day, probably only once in a life time experience. A must do."
The Columbia Ice Field tour starts at the interpretive center which is jam-packed with info on glaciers. You take a comfortable bus to the ice field where you get on the ice bus. These are super cool and great for viewing. Dress warm with sensible shoes to walk on the ice and definitely bring your camera. Might be a once in a lifetime thing to see?
"This glacier was outstanding...the scenery was breathtaking, I could look at it for hours. Well worth a visit."
"Brilliant guide/driver who described himself as a 'retired Japanese accountant': his running commentary was hilarious as he negotiated the glacier, giving us a minute by minute account of his driving (sorry about the pun!) and the terrain."
"it was my second time to the ice fields and it was very busy, but very well run and the bus drivers were great! Gave us lots of info about the glaciers all with a smile and joke. The tourist centre was huge and packed, Took us about 2 hours after waiting in the line up and then the trip in the buses. Well worth it."
"I worried I wouldn't have warm enough clothes, but it really didn't go below 60 degrees. It's a real ""trip"" to walk on the glacier and the water was so clean."
"We really enjoyed our tour of the Ice Field. We drove there and parked at the welcome centre. Bus to the staging area then onto the off-road truck (?) and onto the ice field. Definitely worthwhile - as others have posted, take an empty bottle to fill with glacier water while there; Delicious!"
"It was breathtaking. The guide on the bus was very good.
It was awesome to see such and an amazing Canadian natural
phenomenon."
"I've never been on a glacier. The big glacier bus looks like the armadillo in armageddon, it's amazing. Being on Athabasca glacier and drinking the deep blue water of it a privilege!"
Absolutely stunning scenery as we rode through the ice field. However we were very disappointed in the large tourist centre there. The food in the restaurant was a rip off and awful. The toilets were dirty and smelt bad.
"The views, the scenery, the wildlife, and the ability to stop and check out the lakes. Well worth it!"
The Columbia Icefields are a stunning natural wonder. A perfect stop before Jasper Tramway when on the way from Banff.
"If possible take the trip up on the glacier. If not, there is a walking trail. Hope for clear weather. Wear a jacket, sunglasses, good sturdy shoes, as the ice is cold esp if the wind blows! Only open during late spring to early fall. Food available, not cheap."
"OK I exaggerate...but after ten days touring the Rockies and staying in small towns like Clearwater and even Jasper.. the sudden crush of tourists here made us squirm. The visitor centre was jammed with people. Help get me outta here!If you have not been on a glacier before, then do the ice tractor tour, as the sheer scale is impressive. Or you can just drive to the car park and walk up close-ish to the glacier (there's lots of warning signs that you should not get too close) .If you go on the glacier with a tour - wrap up as it's very cold!"
This is the only place in the world where a huge bus can drive to the glacier. It is a wonderful experience in the Canadian Rockies. The drivers are well educated about the glaciers and are really humorous. The name is deceiving as what you visit is Athabasca Glacier not the Columbia Ice Field. Nevertheless it is a must see attraction in the Canadian Rockies. Do not forget to drink out of the streaming water on the glacier.
"When planning the trip I though this would be the highlight, the chance to see a glacier up close and personal for the first time in my life. We arrived at the icefields centre, parked one car of many in the huge parking lot. Paid our $49 each (plus tax) and took the tour. It is certainly well organised. You are directed to your coach which takes you up to the edge of the ice field where you transfer to a special 6 wheel icebus. Our Japanese driver was great fun and made the trip to the glacier very enjoyable. You have 30 minutes on the glacier before boarding the icebus for your return trip. The scenery is superb. The trip is informative. Yet I was left with the feeling that I had spent 30 minutes not in the wilds of nature but standing in a coach park which just happened to be on a glacier."
"Well, we only had one eager beaver in our group of four that decided to climb up to the glacier from the base .... but we that stayed below got some excellent stones and help from the Parks Canada Ranger! Very cool ... literally!"
"An amazing day. The icefields and its history are truly amazing and a throughly enjoyable day. The staff at the centre and on the icefields are very knowledgeable and we heard some great tales from our bus driver too. Be careful where you put your feet, you wouldn't want to end up down a huge hole ... someone once did but lived to tell the tale and write a book about it :) A great experience en route from Banff to Jasper. Take a jumper though, even on a warm sunny day it can get chilly when on the ice :O)"
Coming to Western Canada and not seeing this place would be like going to Egypt and not seeing the Pyramids. This is one place you must see.
"We drove here from Lake Louise and it was a quick easy drive along the scenic Icefield Parkway. The Glacier is sort of a dirty tan grey color. It was very windy and quite cold even in July. You can park at the parking lot and take a short walk to the base of the glacier. Unless you take the Red Tour bus, you can't get on the glacier itself. However, the short walk to the glacier is punctuated with placards that give you the history of the glacier, including where the glacier was in 1860's, 1910, 1950's 1980, 1990, 2000, and where it is now in 2012. You can see how dramatically the glacier has retreated and how it has sped up in the recent years. Very sobering.We have just returned from Iceland and so must admit that compared to what we saw in Iceland (after a superb hike on the icy blue and white glacier), the Columbia Ice Field and the glacier there was a bit underwhelming. However, if you have never seen a glacier before, this would be a lot more exciting."
"We visited the Interpretive Centre first, but unfortunately it is closed for renovations right now. Across the highway from the Centre is another parking lot where we were able to park and hike to check out the toe of the glacier. We had heard different reviews on the bus tour and decided to skip it and save our money... I'm so glad we did! The hike up to the glacier was a bit taxing at times, but well worth it. The closer we got to the glacier, the colder it was so I'm glad we wore good coats. We didn't go too far out onto the ice as it was very slippery and can be dangerous, but we still got to experience it for free."
The trip to the glacier doesn't actually go anywhere near the Columbia Ice Fields. Where it does go is to the Athabasca Glacier.which is a pale shadow of its former self. Nevertheless a must see experience.
I loved it but did not like that they are letting specific vehicles drive over it for tours. I think that is a bad idea; especially with glaciers all over this area and Glacier National Park residing. I think nobody should be allowed to drive or walk on them. Columbia Icefields is a specific place that has the best glaciers. I`d like for them to last as long as possible and have them protected instead of making money by driving on them and letting people walk on them.
"Cost for 80 minute trip with brewsters seemed high at 50 dollars per person, but it is awesome up there and guides were v friendly and knowledgeable. Definitely do this!"
"The Icefields Parkway is epic and seeing the Columbia glacier spilling down and having easy access to hike to the toe of the glacie is an absolute highlight. It is an easy interpretative trail, well, it goes up but propel yourself knowing that you will be in awe when you reach the top. I think the markers that show how quickly this glacier is receding is also amazing, to global warming human caused or natural?"
"I think it's enough to appreciate the beauty of the site and not necessary to get onto the site, unless by some miracle you can get to an isolated part. Looking at the magnificent views and seeing the thickness of the glacier as you travel offers a changing perspective of the glacier. Having said that, the tourist facility to view the glacier is well designed and thought out."
A great experience! Even family with young children could walk on the glacier. Take the opportunity sooner as the icefield is disappearing with the global warming. The driver/guide's introduction and direction delivered with his humor adding fun to the tour. Do take warm clothes and walking shoes. Have fun!
"Fantastic 'must do' experience. We were lucky to have the perfect weather to visit the icefield, stunning experience. Despite all the warnings to take multi-layered clothing, the weather on the day was sunny, and so only a light jacket necessary. May need to be dressed warmer on colder days though! Wear decent footwear - not flip flops like a couple of people on our tour!! Visitor centre had a nice buffet beforehand."
"We enjoyed this a lot. The guides on the bus and the glacier vehicle gave excellent narration and pointed out Rocky Mountain sheep by the moraine. It was neat to walk on the glacier for 20 minutes and see the blue ice and water and feel the cold come through one's shoes. (Not quite as exciting as climbing up the Franz Joseph glacier in New Zealand, though.)"
"Just as other travellers have reported, once you get on to the glacier, it's all a little boring. After you've taken a few photos, you have to stand around and wait until your bus is ready to leave. The driver provided interesting information on the way to the icefields. Perhaps a guide on the glacier could provide more information. The potential is there, but the overall package lacks something."
Seeing blue glacier ice in the middle of summer is surreal. This is well worth the stop and the views are spectacular. We hiked to the glacier but did not take the bus onto the ice...guided ice walk tours are available. It was impressive to visit this site!
This was perhaps my highlight to the Rockies. It was a great experience and very well organized. The staff were very professional and knowledgable. Don't go past here without stopping
"Majestic view and a very exhilarating experience for us who come from tropical countries.The cold does get a bit too much at times as we were not adequately dressed..other than that,the whole experience was very memorable and pleasant."
"There is food at the visitor center so don't need to bring from Banff or Jasper. This is a great midway point on the highway. Don't need to reserve ahead of time when you will go out on the glacier, because it can be hard to predict when you will get there. We got there mid afternoon and had a bit of a wait and long line to purchase tickets and board bus, but still worth it. Bus takes you for a few minutes, then board second bus with huge tires that drives onto glacier. 20 minutes out walking around was sufficient for great photos and not getting too chilled. Didn't really walk far because safe flattened area in front of parked busses was limited. Unbeatable scenery."
"The trip to the glacier did disappoint a little, as we have been fortunate to walk on the glacier in New Zealand. We expected to take a guided walk as we had done in NZ but all you do is walk in the carpark pegged out on the glacier. The bus driver guide was lovely but they have a set course and he is not allowed to let people walk off."
We did not take the tour on the bus but we walked from the car park to the viewing point at the edge of the glacier. It is an amazing sight and you are surrounded by a living geography lesson. It has left a lasting impression on me as it really makes you think how quickly the ice is disappearing. Don't miss it and don't feel that you have to take the pricey bus trip to enjoy it.
"The ice field is one of the most spectacular tourist places in the national parks. While the bus tour might sound cheesy, it is absolutely recommended and moderately priced. Tours depart every few minutes from the tourist information centre next to the car park; there is no public access to the ice field other than a walkway which goes close to the lower end of the huge glacier."
last time I was here was in 1988...... and the glacier has moved back a lot..... the hike to the tongue is quite steep but so worth it...
"This is out of this world, it is a must see, breath taking!! A large bus with huge tires takes you up the mountain, where you get off and can walk around, there is fresh water you can drink straight from the mountain!"
"We did the Columbia Ice Field Tour because a few friends recommended it. I was originally going to pass on this, but I'm glad I didn't. It truly was a once in a life-time experience. The glaciers there won't always be there from my understanding so it was cool to be on the ice. The tour was fun and helpful and the water is drinkable on the glacier. It was the coldest water I've ever drank but it was so refreshing with no after taste. My family and I really enjoyed it. It was a bit pricey, but still worth it."
Lovely drive - take time to stop off at Peyto and Bow Lakes along the way and the beautiful Athabasca Falls.
we went with our friends who had been to Alaska. we were told that we got 75% of Alaska goodness visiting Columbia Icefield. The great thing about this tour is that you get to put your feet on the glacier and have the direct physical experience. You also get to ride on a heavy duty bus with 5 feet high tires. There are only 30 such buses in the world and the Brewster company that runs this tour owns 23 of them. I don't think you can experience elsewhere in North America.People kept telling us it was only a few degree colder there but I think it was a lot colder so be prepare with layers and water proof boots. The ice was melting and you could step into a pool of icy water.
"Really easy to find on the Icefields Parkway, with a massive car park. My son and I were amazed to find that we didn't have to queue to get tickets and it was only a 5 minute wait for the next coach to take us across the road and up a very steep road to the Sno-coach area. Both the coach drivers and the sno-coach drivers were very informative. I was sad to hear how much the glacier had retreated in the last 100 years and felt very privileged to have been able to visit it. We had around 20 minutes on the glacier and made the most of the fabulous photo opportunities.Back at base there is a very big gift shop and excellent toilet facilities. We didn't try the café as we had purchased picnic food in Lake Louise village."
"The Columbia Ice Field was nice, it's nothing compared to Alaska. However, the most interesting part of the trip to the ice field was the ride there. The vehicle goes down the (reportedly) steeptest commercial road in the world. (I thought my Mom was going to have a panic attack.)"
it is absolutely magnificent! we did not climb the glacier but enjoyed viewing it. it would be great to go on it when kids are a bit older.
"Thoroughly enjoyed the trip to the glacier. Well-organized. We fortunately had timed our arrival well and were able to hop on a bus right after buying our tickets - no line. Buses run frequently and take you out across the road and up the mtn to the stop where you get on an Explorer vehicle that takes you out onto the glacier. We were blessed with beautiful blue skies and thoroughly enjoyed our time there. They allow plenty of time to walk around on the glacier, take your picture, and let you collect the glacier water. Everyone is friendly and the drivers relay information about the area as you are being transported from one area to another. Views from the Center bldg itself are also impressive. Just one thing to note: if you are only wanting tickets to to the Icefield Explorer, then you need to seek out the desk where those are sold. The door that we walked in was trying to sell us tickets for the Banff gondola and another thing that the same company runs and we were confused at first until I said that I just wanted icefield tickets so the young man then directed me to the correct desk. It looks like they are strategically placed so people stop there first. Just keep walking and you will eventually find the right desk - it is right next to the area where you walk in to get to the bus."
"A must when in the area. Our guide Glen was very informative and we had a perfect day, the view is awesome. The water is crystal clear and drinkable. The trip out to the glacier on the snow mobile is a great way to start the expericence."
"An interesting trip with good photo ops. Had to do it as we were on the Icefields Parkway. It takes about an hour, including 20 minutes of actually walking on the glacier. So flipflops are not a good idea as the weather can make it very cold; it can be as low as -10 although is was +8 for us. You definitely need a jacket whatever the weather.$52.45 per adult"
"Spectacular place to stop, even if you do so just for a few pics...........although I'm sure a trip up the glacier is worth it"
"This was a very nice surprise. We went down on the glacier in a bus like vehicle with huge tires. They are as tall as a man standing beside them. It is very very steep going into the basin and out of it. You are allowed to walk out onto the glacier and we did this. Our friend had a bottle of scotch and we mixed it with the cold pure glacier melt water and had us ""Scotch-on-the-Rockies"" I don't like scotch, but this one was pretty good so I had another-------for the climb back out. I would absolutely recommend this adventure to everyone......well worth the price."
Definitely worth the price. The guides are helpful and standing on a glacier is a unique experience. Make sure you bring an empty water bottle or two because the water is delicious. Dress warmly.
"We really enjoyed the tour and the commentary. A once in a lifetime experience. Eat before you go as the food is mediocre and not cheap. Large crowd but they really know how to move them thru. Really large bathroom facilities. If you don't like walking, have someone drop you at the top lot and then have them park at the lower one - there are a LOT of stairs to get you to the correct level."
"The visit to the ice field is once in a lifetime experience.In fact, the road up to the ice field center itself is extremely scenic and breathtaking.The ride in the special glacier vehicles - icefield explorers is fun and incomparable. The gradients of the slopes are extremely steep! The staff drivers are very knowledgeable and friendly.I felt the time on the actual glaciers was bit short and would have been great if it was extended by 15 minutes.One should not miss drinking the glacier water. Carry empty bottles to fill it."
"Cheesed off by the Icefield Centre, the next time I'll do it myself. Read the reviews, park away from the centre and walk it. The glacier is spectacular and worth visiting on its own. Avoid the centre, it's a dump."
"Very disappointing. Cannot believe people will stand in line forever to pay an arm and leg to stand on a glacier. Tour busses everywhere, screaming children, you name it. We turned and left to get back on the spectacular highway."
what an experience this was very worth it. The driver Robert we had going up to the top where we got on the bus to go to the icefield was very informative...then we had James as our other driver very funny and all around full of information.
"We drove up the Ice fields parkway from Lake Louise specifically to do the ""Bus on the Glacier"" attraction. It was a very popular attraction but afterwards it felt like we had just paid a lot of money for very little benefit. Most of the commentary provided by the glacier bus driver had to do with the specifications of the vehicle that we were travelling in. While that might be intersting to the driver, we were far more interested in the past and the future of the glaciers in the area. There was some of that but not enough. You get driven on the ice, you stand around on the ice for a few minutes and then you drive back. While standing around you can have your picture taken. Of course it was nice to see the glacier since it will probably be gone in less than 20 years."
This is a trip for all ages. Wear decent shoes. We saw underdressed people with flip flops on. Nor so great when you are standing on 1000 feet of ice at the toe of a grand glacier.
The views are spectacular. I have taken the bus tour in previously so didn't this time. It is also really worthwhile parking on the other side of the road and taking the short 5 minute hike up to glacier. There are signposts indicating where the glacier reached to in past years which gives a real impact of how much it has retreated in so few years.
"The Columbia Icefield is the most accesible glacier along the Icefields Parkway (and in Northern America if I remember correctly). A short, but in places quite steep, walk leads you to the base of the glacier. It's massive, but I wasn't THAT impressed. Maybe because I've seen other more impressive glaciers in the Alps and Andes? There is an option to go on a tour to drive onto the icefield itself in special glacier buses (snocoaches). From people that had been on the trip we learned that, it's not particularly interesting. It's a relatively short drive and you're only allowed to be on a certain part of the carved-out 'parking lot' on the glacier for about 15 minutes..."
"Going up to the Icefield on the Ice Explorer was fun! As was walking around on the Glacier, needed more layers of clothing & a woolly hat as it was freezing up there!"
This is one of my favorite spots in the Banff/Jasper area. It was simply incredible to stand and be on the Athabasca glacier.
"We stayed at the Glacier Inn so were able to take a late in the day bus tour up to the glacier. This was nice because all of the bus tours had left and it was not busy at all. Tickets are purchased in the Visitor centre and then you get in a line until the next bus leaves for the glacier. If you show your AMA / AAA you will get a discount which is great because it is pricey!Once on the first bus the driver gives you a little bit of information but this is only a few minutes drive to the base where you get on the snow bus. There is no getting in line again for the next bus. The bus pulls up on one side and the snow bus you are getting on is on the other waiting for you. It is a quick and easy transfer. Once on the bus the driver goes through over a few things and you are on your way. Our driver was a bundle of information and very friendly. Once in the area you are allowed off and can wander within a good sized area. Bring an empty water bottle to fill with some fresh glacier water. It really does taste ""clean"". We had about 30 minutes. I think we had a bit longer because it was later in the day and it was one of the last tours. Our driver was happy to take photos and answer questions. We were there in July on a HOT day. Once at the top though it is cold, especially if the wind is blowing hard. Jeans, a hoodie and a scarf or hat may be in order if you have sensitive ears. The trip back was again filled with information from our driver and he was happy to answer any questions anyone had. Allow about an hour and a half total, depending on the line after initial ticket purchase. My boys loved it, They had a snowball fight and had a contest to see who could hold their hand in the cold water the longest!It is a bit pricey but well worth it."
we didn't take the bus to the Glacier - living in Montreal and walking on ice/snow for several months of year we didn't think it was worth it. But it is a great place to stop along the Icefields parkway for a scenic photo stop and lunch. Be sure to hike the Parker Ridge Trail about 15 minutes south of here.
A great experience very well run to a slick timetable the drivers of the busses are informative and friendly walking on the glacier is awesome
"We visited the Columbia Icefield on our journey to Jasper. The Ice explorer bus trip is well worth doing, allowing you to go on to the Glacier. We were told to wear appropriate footwear, which caused considerable debate with my wife, however when we got there people were wearing all sorts and had no difficulties."
Any foreigner who has never seen or experienced a glacier should take this tour. The price was a bit steep but given the seasonal nature and cost of facilities and equipment one can sympathize.
In Jasper National park you come to some really great glaciers. Columbia has 8 glaciers. There are 3 that you can see from the road and one of them you can take a ride in a huge truck with massive wheels and even bigger tyres. We drove on the glacier and the guide told us all about it and the statistics were astounding. one that stuck in my mind was it was a kilometer thick. You can drink the water which is run off from the melting of the glacier and it is very cold and very nice. Well worth doing you will be impressed. The clothing to protect you from the cold of the glacier whilst you are out of the truck walking around is supplied to you.
The Ice Explorer trip is a good way to explore the Atahabasca Glacier - it may seem a little pricey but believe me it is worth the money. The trip out to the glacier is interesting as the driver provides a live commentary of facts and features of the glacier that enhance your enjoyment and allow you to safely spend time on the ice. When on the glacier the temperature is noticeably cooler so take something warm to wear (even if it seems warm when you are at the reception centre). Fantastic opportunity for good photographs - a not to be missed trip.
"Really neat tour... Lots of interesting things to see highlight being drinking freezing cold glacier water. Ice explorer trucks are pretty cool.
Avoid the cafeteria and restaurant, food is bad and extremely overpriced."
We took the Ice Explorer trip although we thought it was a bit expensive at first. Afterward we all agreed that it was well worth the money. The fact that we were taken onto an actual glacier and allowed to walk around was amazing. A once in a lifetime experience.
"What a great view, anywhere you look it's just plain picturesque. The climb up the glacier is a must even my toddler couldn't resist the view and went up hiking. This is one experience that should not be missed. Get your camera ready for a great photo op."
"We loved the Columbia Ice Field, you have to take the ice explorer out onto the glacier if you are driving down the Icefield Parkway! It would be criminal to miss this! We loved the feeling of walking out onto the glacier, and we got some great photos! I can't remember what it cost, but it was worth it! DO IT!"
My ticket was included in the price of my stay at the glacier view inn. It was an incredible experience that should be done at least once. Prep your camera beforehand so that once you are on the glacier you do not waste time trying to fix the settings.
"So well organized. Great trip up the glacier although scary, straight up but the driver made us feel very safe. Beautiful, breathtaking views"
"In May of 2012 my husband and I biked (Mountain bike) from Jasper to Banff. The weather in Jasper was hot and beautiful. We stayed at the Sunwapta Falls resort, and continued on to the Ice Fields the next day. We started out in pouring rain and as we made the accent to the Ice fields, the vehicles coming from the Ice Fields were covered in snow...Not a Good Sign...By the time we made it to the Ice Fields our feet were frozen, as they were the only part that we did not prepare for rain or SNOW? We stayed in the Hotel at the Ice Fields and welcomed the large, clean and warm accommodations. We can't help but laugh when we recount our trip to the Ice Fields. Brrr....."
"Stayed at the Glacier View Inn on 4th July, walked to the foot of the glacier, and then took the Icefield Experience the next day. Watching the sun gradually illuminate the Icefield was amazing.Something that rates as a must-do - the real ice-blue ice (on the glacier itself - the foot shows all the rock dust accumulated), the sound of the ice melt rushing, the pure taste of the water, and the power of the glacier from the effect on the geology. Yes - it's cool - wear a jacket - you're a few feet away from ice at zero degrees. Definitely a must-do"
"If you try and access the lip of the glacier by foot from the carpark, be warned it is a long slippery climb up and down, and you can' get right to the glacier. It is best viewed from a distance as is just looks like dirty ice up close. I had a cold when I went up there and the cold air and steep climb made me feel pretty bad. Wouldn't have been so bad if I wasn't sick."
we passed several times by the Columbia Icefield and also took the special bus to go and walk on the glacier. each time we discover something new; here one can really experience first hand how our environment is in a continuous change.
Wear your hoodie or jacket ~ it is cold even if you are looking from the Welcome Centre across the hwy.
"This is one of those experiences that you do simply because you may never again have the opportunity to walk on a glacier. It's not as if you see so much more once you are up there and, honestly, ice is ice. The ride is well run, the guides are humorous and the wait times weren't too bad. The ""ice explorer buses"" leave every 15-30 minutes and there seemed to be fewer people in the afternoon than in the morning. You don't buy tickets for a particular time, you just stand in line. As for the price, one way to keep it manageable is to avoid all those places in Banff and Jasper that want to sell you a package that includes transportation to the Ice Field Center. Unless you don't have a car, there's no reason to take a bus there. Ice Field Highway is an excellent road and it's a beautiful drive.One thing that wasn't mentioned in any of the literature we saw is that the Ice Field Center itself is being renovated so all the informative information about glaciers, etc, has been removed. That was sort of a downer since we were hoping the kids could learn about glaciers. The exhibits won't return until 2014."
"The drive into here is fantastic and at every corner there is a new vista. The ice fields centre has trips in gigantic buses that drive you onto the actual glacier and you can walk about for around half an hour, although in a somewhat limited space. The ice at this point is deeper than the Eiffel Tower is tall! The bus onto the ice is very reasonably priced and the operation is very slick, we had minimal waiting time.It is cold on the glacier so study shoes ,gloves , hat and a coat are essential items.It is well worth the cost , don't drive by without taking part!"
The view all the way to this glacier area from Banff is absolutely breath taking! The mountains surround you and you want to stop every few minutes to take pictures of the views!  The ice field trip was great-the weather was perfect on the day we went. The ride up to the glacier is so interesting as the guide in the vehicle explains everything adding humor and fun to the day-along with the bus drivers. They all seem to love their jobs! The restaurant afterwards had hot soup which tasted so good after being up in the mountains where it was cool but refreshing!  A must to see if you go to Jasper area.
"Very interesting sites & so much fun to be hiking while also very bundled up. It's cold near the glacier, so wear many layers & definitely a hat that can take the wind."
"Definitely worth the admission fee. Long drive from Banff but there is some seriously beautiful scenery on the way. The centre is decent. Snack bar and good facilities. The drivers were both informative and entertaining. (Bob driving the coach and Danny driving the ice explorer). Once out there on the actual ice is an amazing feeling. Take something warm. Get one of the packages to (Gondola, Lake Louise boat and ice explorer) save a bit of cash."
"While the money seems steep for this experience, it is well worth it. The view is incredible and to say you've walked on a glacier and drank glacier water is a thrill!"
"We actually didn't go out on the icefields as we didn't want to pay for or wait to go on the vehicle, but even without that you could see and feel the cold from the glacier. I was so in awe of the experience and saw many glaciers further up the parkway at Mount Edith Cavell and along the parkway that I didn't want to go on the glacier. Personal decision and depends on how much time you have."
"This is another must go to place for us when we are in the area. The down sides: it's expensive ($50/adult & $25/child) and the facilities are over run by tourists (which I suppose it should be), it can be very busy!The upsides are the awesome scenery, getting up onto a glacier which most people would not be able to in their life (and most should not do otherwise), the cool glacier buses (yah, sorry but if it has wheels and tires that big - it's cool). Just limiting the 'adventure' to going up to the glacier and walking on it would be only getting half the value (or less) out of the trip. Drinking in the scenery the peaks, the waterfalls, the snow capped mountains, gorgeous! Envision the mighty power that a glacier has to carve channels out of the mountains as you look up the peaks surrounding you. Take in what the guides have to say about the surroundings.The trip is a little short and if you are looking for entertainment value, it's in the beauty of the glacier and it's entire surroundings!"
"It's an impressive glacier, to be sure, but the Visitor's Center is so commercialized and overrun with busloads of tourists that, for me at least, it loses much of it's impact."
"$130 for my wife and son and I for <20 minutes outside on the icefield. The bus and then ice travel bus, was okay with some good information shared by the drivers. Very professional. But the machines all line up in a parking lot type of arrangement and you have to stay with a very small area..understandable for safety reasons, but underwhelming other than knowing you are on a 1000feet of ice and you are looking at glaciers...of course you can see that from the road, just further away. So a good experience, especially for kids, but not great value...i.e. when you can look back at the highway and see the cars going by, it takes away from the experience. I was here 39 years ago with the old style ice machines, the glacier was much bigger and you could walk around much more...so disappointed overall, especially for the money."
It is a wonderful experience to stand on the glacier and to understand how the landscape has been shaped by the moving ice over thousands of years. The huge tyred vehicles are quite impressive too. I would not recommend eating in the Icefield Centre restaurant at busy times as it is a scrum with all the visitors trying to get served at the same time.
"The icefield is slowly melting and we noticed a huge difference since our last visit. They are revamping the visitor centre, which should be excellent when it's open. Unfortunately it was closed when we visited as they are still working on it. A trip on the ice is well worth it, but a bit pricey."
We first visited the Ice Field in 1964 and visited it several times since. It is distressing to see the extent to which the glacier has receded. The climb to the glacier is an easy hike over rough gravel and rocks but climb to the top and look over the edge of the glacier and realize it is the birthplace of several main Canadian rivers.
"As we were located in Jasper due to the flooding in Banff we did the Icefields parkway both ways, so you could say we have seen it from every angle. Depending on the weather is what you can see, from those awesome peaks this is the Rockies at its best, you never get tired of looking at the mountains. There is lots to see and do on the way it all depends on how much time you have. There are some glaciers which will never melt and the view of them almost touching the many lakes is very surreal."
"Driving along the Icefield Parkway nothing can prepare you for the sight of this mighty glacier- it is one of the most beautiful things I've ever seen! We went on the Ice Explorer bus which was pricey but worth the money. It was the first time I've stood on a glacier and although you can't go far from the bus (only 80m or so) it was a magical experience. Be prepared for the changing weather conditions- we experienced hail, snow and blue sky all within the 20 minutes on the ice. Also have your camera ready for avalanches as the snow melts off the surrounding peaks.  The guide was well informed and humorous, and overall the experience is deffo worth the money! :)"
It is almost forty years since I first visited the Columbia Icefield. In that so short period of time the glacier has retreated at an ever increasing pace and a visit underlines the climate change taking place on our planet provoking sobering thought.
"It was a little expensive to bus onto the ice field but it was worth it. The scenery was spectacular.
The bus drivers were also very entertaining."
"We did the same tour others mention, bus to base, rover vehicle to glacier. It is very expensive but a great experience. If you try to walk on yourself you won't get far on the glacier and it is dangerous. The specialty vehicle alone was fun to ride and interesting to learn about. Being on the glacier was great, knowing you are standing on a thousand feet of ice is pretty wild, and my kids (9 and 12) really enjoyed it. It gets pretty cold up there (much colder than it is at the visitors center), so dress appropriately. My wife went on the truck early because she was cold, but given how short the trip is it should be fine for most. Also, depending on the weather the ice could be mushy, make sure you wear reasonable shoes."
The icefield's water is the best water you could imagine tasting! Learning about the history was pretty interesting as well.
"Really interesting visit, the guide was very friendly and informative. It was very well organised and brilliant to be able to drive an walk onto an ice berg."
A must place to visit if you are in the Rockies. It is here that you get to know what the Global Warming is all about.Every year the Glacier is going inside by 15 Meters. The Bun in which they take us inside is beautiful..... Th roughly enjoyed the visit.
"Not too far from Jasper or Banff, this is an easily accessible, once in a lifetime experience. From the lodge building, a bus takes you close to the Glacier, where you switch to a rugged bus that will take you right out on to the Glacier. Both bus drivers are informative and describe the ecosystem around the glaciers, and the forces and history that have created the current environment. The ride out to the glacier is a bit of a thrill on its own, with an incredible descent to the ice. Once on the glacier, you are in a safe zone for about 20 minutes or so, with only the other bus passengers. This is your opportunity to absorb the experience and to be as close to an icefield as you are likely to get. Expensive? For a bus ride, yes. To stand on a glacier? We felt it was worth it. We were there later in the day (4:30 trip) and it was not busy at all. Try to avoid the tour buses by visiting early or late in the day. We did not reserve beforehand, but that may be wise during high season. Afterwards however, almost $10 for a coffee and hot chocolate at the lodge? Overpriced!"
"We visited here, en route from Lake Louise to Jasper. Well worth a visit. The guide was very knowledgeable, young and funny. They first take you out by coach before you get on the huge truck which takes you onto the icefield. The glacier wont be there in 70 years time, so visit now!! You get about 10 minutes on the icefield, it was quite cold about 7 degrees, but a brilliant experience."
"Amazing is the one word that sums it up! The ticket prices are on the expensive side but well worth it! Do remember to take a empty water bottle so you can fill up on Fresh,clean & cold Glacier water!!"
We enjoyed walking out on the ice and being amongst the mountains and ice. The only downside was all the tourists.
"We took the Icefield Snow coach with driver Helen. A very steep hill takes you out onto the glacier. We exited the coach to explore a designated area. Very enjoyable and easy for those of us who can't manage a long steep hike to the glacier. We arrived fairly early and had no wait, it still took about 1-1.5 hrs. Well worth the cost and time."
"The $100 for two of us was money well spent. This is so well managed by the Brewster team, from the shuttle bus driver, to the ice bus driver and actually to all the people involved around the glacier. This is a must do when in the area."
Do not miss this attraction. It is very easy to get to. There are markers to show from various years just how far the glacier has receded. This is very instructional. There are explanations and detailed information of the history of the glacier
"No visit to the Rockies would be complete without a visit to the Ice Fields. Its a marvellous experience to ride the Ice Explorer, especially if your driver is called Rowan!"
"It was great to walk on a glacier. We had a nice day, but it was still cold. Take a water bottle to get some glacier water."
A visit to the icefield is possible by bus or one can drive close to it and walk the rest of the way
A really fun experience for adults and kids alike. This seems like about the only chance we will have to stand on a glacier - so we took advantage of it. Very fun.
"One of our family's 3 favorite drives in North America. Waterfalls at every turn, sky high mountains, and glaciers with unbelievably blue lakes. We parked at the base of Athabasca glacier and walked to the glacier in freezing rain. No admittance onto the glacier for safety reasons (think falling into an endless frozen hole and dying of hypothermia) unless traveling in the ""snocoaches"" ($$) through the Columbia Icefield Centre. I wish now we would have paid to ride the snocoaches, as it would have been worth the expense to walk on the glacier. Worth the time, up hill walk, and inclement weather that day to see."
"We stayed overnight above the discovery centre and booked into the first tour onto the glacier. Only a handful of us and the drivers were really friendly, full of interesting information and happy to take photos of you together where necessary. Informative and inspiring trip, not too expensive for the privilege of standing on something that may not be where you stood for much longer."
This was one of the highlights of my tour to the Rockies. I loved walking up to edge of glacier. I pinched myself to see if I was really there. I found walk up difficult as I was not really prepared with hiking shoes. I also was a little afraid coming down so make sure if visiting to have proper footwear. But it is so worth it. I went for a walk all around trying to take it all in. I also loved all the informative posters along the route.
"The trip back and forth Jasper was itself a treat. This is a real glacier and you have the opportunity to see an actual starting point of a river. Very big vehicle specially made for the purpose takes you to the glacier over very steep road. Vehicle driver are quite amusing and make the short ride full of fun. Once in the glacier you will be greeted with coldness but brace yourself and enjoy your walk in the glacier. The day I visited it was raining but I was told that in a gloomy day only one can see the superb color of the ice. It is something very unusual experience and I recommend it to everybody. Very enjoyable and well managed destination.One word of advice to save money if you are travelling from Banff to Jasper. You can stop at the ice field, complete the ice field tour in probably 2 hr. period and be on your way to Jasper. That way you save time and money for a round trip from Jasper. You can probably do it even if you are using a bus."
"The ice-field and the Glacier walk are beyond compare. What strikes you are efforts underway to increase the commercialization of a natural wonder. Noticed the promos for the Glacier Skywalk. If that comes along, you'll have to pay for the glacier hike that is free now. Make the trip while it's still in whatever pristine state it is now."
"We couldn't bring ourselves to spend $150 for our family to do the ice vehicle tour. The lines were long, the day was cold, windy and cloudy and the kids were cranky from being in the car. Instead, we drove across the highway, to a parking lot below the glacier. After a short, but steep hike (about 15 minutes) we were at the foot of the glacier. Our kids loved the adventure and felt very accomplished. There were several information signs along the way and markers of where the glacier had retreated from years past. On a bright and pretty day, the ice tour may well be worth it, but we enjoyed this adventure for the conditions that we had."
"The trip onto the glacier is definitely worth a visit. Wear extra layers since it can be hot to ok at the base of the glacier, warm in the bus and glacier vehicle, then COLD on the glacier. Also wear shoes with good treads as the ice is slippery when you get out to walk around. Have some hot chocolate or coffee when you return."
"The Canadian Rockies is without doubt of the of prettiest places on earth, and the Icefield Snow coach adds a very different experience. Driving on these specially designed vehicles that take you on to the glacier is amazing. Just the sheer enormity of the Athabasca Glacier is breathtaking. A really fun experience too as you can have a real blast on the glacier. This entire route the Icefields Parkway is anyway really scenic as you see the Bow Lake, Crowfoot glacier and a great chance to see the Bears - depending on the season"
I was very excited to see a glacier and this more then lived up to my expectations. Simply amazing. The scenery all around is stunning and just takes your breath away.
"Outstanding scenic attraction, knowledgeable and enthusiastic drivers of the SnoBus. The center restaurant cafe was very poor with only one serving line catering for hordes of visitors which detracted rather from what was a terrific experience"
"Loved the glacier tour on the snow coach.
Extraordinary views and a good driver guide.
Greatvtontaste the glacial meltwater"
"An ad at the Columbia Icefields Centre says: Great Wall, Eiffel Tower, etc. - each place has its must-see attraction. In the Canadian Rockies, This Is It! (i.e. the Athabasca Glacier)It involves getting to the drop off point on the glacier by bus, and then you have about 20 minutes there before heading back. The whole thing lasts about 80 minutes, but it is so worth it regardless of what you may think of the price!Here's a place where the water from melted ice looks a magnificent (light) blue. Do take video clips (NOT just photos) here, especially of water flowing out of where there's a short wall of ice - it's an unreal scene!Thus bus drivers did a wonderful job on filling us in on the history an geography of the area."
We went on the glacier on the ice explorer. The experience was fun as we get to go down a steep hill (30 degrees slant) on a 6-wheel-drive terra-vehicle. The driver/guide was informative and makes the commentary along the way to the glacier interesting. Standing on the glacier itself was cool and the view from there was good. Bring a jacket and wear covered shoes as it can get cold on the glacier.
It's a fantastic feeling to walk on the ice. A well organised tourist attraction although I would say it is a little bit over priced. Wonderful scenery and lots of photograph opportunities.
"It was an amazing experience. Right from the bus ride to the Glacier and back. Our bus driver was japanese, very funny and provided good tips and information. The views were fantastic and the feel of walking on the glaciers was great. Since time was an issue for me, I would recommend guided Ice walk is also a must to do. Overall an amazing trip."
It was great riding the Ice Exployer down to the Glacier it was so much fun and iwe learn't alot about Glacier's it was very interesting. Being able to walk around the glacier was an amazing experience.
"The Icefields are a unique experience, both amazing and disturbing to see how much of the glacier is gone due to global warming and pollution. I recommend taking the Icefield Adventure Experience and also hiking the glacier on the trails. It is spectacular."
"I used to like this tour. However, it's sad to see how much the glacier has melted. It has become so popular, it's hard to sort out which group you are with.Now, there are regular bus tours going up there, not just the Columbia Ice Fields snow machines. I prefer to look at it from the road."
"My husband, my mother, my 4 year old son and myself made the drive up through the mountains to take in the wonder of the Columbia Icefields. We had spent the night in Lake Louise and then made the drive up early in the morning. When we arrived there was hardly anyone around. We purchased our tickets for our ride on the Ice Explorer. Our bus was to leave in 10 minutes time. We all quickly ran to the washroom. The rest of my party went to the gathering spot for the bus and I quickly ran to the car to grab a jacket. The bus left 5 minutes early, with the rest of my family standing right there. No big deal...we just got on the next one 15 minutes later...and they did apologize for the bus leaving without us.As it turned out we couldn't have time this trip any better. If you are driving yourself, I recommend staying in the Lake Louise area the night before and then leaving for the Icefields between 8am - 8:30am. That is the time the tour buses leave Banff so you will arrive ahead of them. We shared the Ice Explorer bus and the Glacier with 2 other couples...that was it. We had a wonderful day, clear blue skies (literally not a cloud all day), and it was 10C on the glacier, which for anyone who doesn't know, is quite warm. It was lovely to have the glacier pretty much to ourselves...no problem getting whatever photo you wanted. When we were on our way back down off the glacier we met 3 full buses on their way up. Again, we couldn't have timed it any better.We had a wonderful bus driver...he was extremely informative and funny. Thank you Masami 'Sami' Okada!!! You were a joy!I do recommend bringing a picnic lunch if you can...there is a cafeteria on site where you buy your tickets, but the prices leave something to be desired. An apple juice was almost $5. There is also a gift shop on site. If you are looking for something that states Jasper National Park and you are heading back down into Banff, buy it there as there isn't much in Banff for Jasper. But some other things are defnitely cheaper. My son wanted the Ice Explorer bus...it was $28 there. I knew I had seen it for less back in Banff, so we waited and picked it up on our way back...$24.We had a wonderful trip and it is a once in a lifetime experience. Highly recommend it for everyone of all ages. Of course the beauty and knowledge of the place is kind of lost on young ones. LOL"
"Easy to access, great staff made the trip very enjoyable. Safe and comfortable and lots of time to take in the fantastic views. However, plan your timing as the weather can be a killjoy and will block the view and diminish the experience."
"I'll probably never get to Antarctica, so the Columbia Ice Field will have to do. Approaching it on the parkway from the south, the view of this massive ice sheet spreading down from the Continental Divide is something you won't find much of in the Lower 48 of the US these days. At the top of the Divide, the ice sheet feeds rivers that flow in all directions - to the Pacific, the Arctic and the Atlantic. But the best part is the chance to ride out (in a special snow vehicle) onto the Ice Sheet and walk on it yourself. The wind, the cold, the view up the mountain are all elements of a great experience that most of us will never have anywhere else. Along the way, the guide explains how the glacier functions and how it has shrunk over the last 150 years. A visit here is a unique way to understand what is happening to earth's climate in our own lifetimes."
"Nice place to see and well worth the visit, seems to be disappearing and a pity as it is one of the great attractions in Alberta. However it will be around for a long time yet went there with my wife and if I am honest expected a bit more for my money and all the hype created by the tour guides.Canada can be like that as they seem to over exaggerate their attractions. Same can be said for Vancouver both are indeed beautiful places but someone needs to tell them they are not the elite when it comes to beauty. The South Island New Zealand comes to mind. To finish this is a place you will want to visit if your around the Jasper area."
We loved the Columbia Ice Field it was an amazing experience. It was absolutely freezing but enjoyable and the buses that take you on the icefield are great.
"LOVED - LOVED - LOVED the Columbia Ice Field glacier experience, walking on the glacier and drinking glacier melt. This is a once in a lifetime experience that shouldn't be passed up."
We had so much fun visiting the icefield and glacier it was amazing everywhere you looked it was white . The snow was so fluffy we had fun throwing snowballs it was amazing. Our guide on the icefields was very funny and gave us lots of info on the glacier very interesting.
"You can just view the glacier from the visitor's center, or take the big bus and get up close and walk on a glacier. Bit of trivia: the visitor's center has the largest women's bathroom in North America. They have a cafeteria, but the food is mediocre."
Walk on a glacier and enjoy spectacular views of the mountains up close. Suitable for kids of all ages.
"A great experience which I would encourage everyone to enjoy. Not too short - not too long - and the tour ""guides"" were great."
A great experience indeed to actually stand on a glacier. Enjoyed the sno-coach ride and commentary by a friendly host. Remember to take along a warm jacket and wear shoes with non-skid soles. Perhaps a bottle to collect some water from the glacier.
I must admit I was not keen to go but I am glad I did. Our guide/driver was fantastic - very funny and very interesting. The whole trip takes say 90 minutes. Make sure you take a water bottle and sample the water direct from the glazier.
What a great view of everything. Breathtaking once in a lifetime must see.Put it on your bucket list of things to see.Beautiful mountains.
Very close to the road between Jasper and Banff. Tours run from both places by Brewsters coaches. well organised. An excellent experience to travel on one the massive trucks down onto the actual glacier. The tyres ere at least 5 foot high! Standing on the glacier was a lifetime experience.
"This was our first trip to the Columbia Icefield and we were completely blown away by the magnitude and the beauty. We took the Ice Explorer coach tour onto the glacier as well as a guided scenic walk (this is not the same as the Ice Walk - the Ice Walks weren't offered when we went because it was still early in the season). If you take the coach, you can walk on the glacier. I would say, if you are able, the walk is definitely a better way to experience the area, even though you don't step on the glacier. It's about 2 hours long, about 2-3km and you have fantastic views of the glacier and the ice field throughout. Carry a jacket and wear good shoes when you visit."
"We took the snow coach to the Athabasca Glacier, and the experience was just out of this world. Imagine walking on a glacier...how magical is that? I would highly recommend this."
"To walk on a glacier is amazing, the trip on the specially built vehicles was fun. We decided that you must need a sense of humour as part of your application to work there as all of the staff joked about and kept you amused."
"Not the first time to the Columbia Ice Field, still impacted by her greatness and enjoyed the snowcoach ride very much. It is one of ice fields that can be reached easily."
One of the most awe inspiring trips to be taken if you are in the area and the weather is allowing the tours to go ahead. It takes your breath away in more ways than one. Need a good camera to try and capture some of the scenes.
"What an experience! we took the 9am tour, so it was just us and another couple! It felt like our own private tour which made it even more special! The tour guide ( Rex) was friendly & knowledgeable.It was interesting learning about the history of the area, the glacier and how it is formed.I definitely recommend this but make sure you get there early! as loads of busy tour buses arrive and it gets very busy."
"Visited Ice field as part of tour along Ice field Parkway, very well organized but on this occasion a little disappointing due to snow blizzard (May 24).Brewster's 6 wheel drive buses awesome. Watch out for new attraction being built nearer to Jasper."
"This is another beautiful place in Alberta. I think that the trip (using the bus) is quite pricey close to $55 per person. I know that they need to maintain all the infrastructure associated with the attraction, but for a party of four it could be quite expensive."
I would reccommend going on this excursion. Make sure to bring an empty water bottle and fill it up with ice cold glacier water!
we got there 5 mins before the last bus left after a 1.5 hour drive up the mountain and they would not hold it for an extra 5 mins for my family to get on
I was a little disappointed with Columbia Ice Field. Its 20 years since I was last there and the glacier has retreated so much. We had just been to Alaska so we were a bit spoilt.
Trip well organised. Enthusiatic Australian guide who had a lot of knowledge about the geology around us. Amazing trip down and across the glacier- amust do!
"Rex our guide was wonderful! He taught us about glaciers, ice fields and rock flour! He was also quite funny and entertaining! The ice fields were unbelievably beautiful and actually warm while it was snowing!
Definitely a Must See!"
We took the $53 tour out onto the glacier - great experience and had perfect weather! You can also drive to the foot of the outflow and walk up it which is highly recommended.
"Our Ice Explorer driver was ""the retired Japanese accountant"". (Sorry I can't remember his name. ) He was the most entertaining person I have ever had as a tourist driver.He took photo's for everyone, was extremely knowledgeable about the Glacier and the Icefield as well as told the best jokes.We had a great time.."
"If you ever pass Columbia Ice Field you have to stop to see this. The place is very unique, the views are amazing! Must be in everyones bucket list!"
"Passed by the Icefields but never had the time to get a closer look. There were quite a few people walking arond on the icefield and from a distance it looked a good place to actially get a closer look, time permitting."
"Had a few free hours during a hockey tournament so took that one hour drive down the icefields parkway to that Athabasca glacier. An incredibly scenic drive where we saw black bears, elk and mountain goats.Took the Ice Explorer out onto the glacier, very impressive machines especially during your initial descent onto the ice. Very good experience to be standing on 1000 feet of solid ice. Kids were able to have an impromptu snow ball fight on a gorgeous 28C day!Driver and guide was excellent and very helpful taking pictures and answering questions.Still don't understand why people have to smoke while out on a glacier but I guess it takes all kinds.Overall a great experience that I would recommend."
Staff at the Columbia Icefield made it possible for my 85 year old mom to experience getting on the ice. Heather worked soooo hard to make this possible and I thank her from the bottom of my heart. This was a bucket list trip and highly recommended.
"We only had one day in this area and made the most of it while we were there. We drove from the entrance of Jasper National Park to Banff and enjoyed some of the most beautiful snow covered mountain tops, glaciers, waterfalls, and lakes that we have ever seen. What magnificent beauty awaited us around each turn we made. We did not have time to hike or do any excursions but found that what we saw from the car was more than satisfying. I would loved to have had the time to do the Icefield Parkway in reverse so I could see the scenery from the opposite direction. If we had it to do over again, we would have stayed in Jasper and explored that area and then made a day of driving the Icefield Parkway staying overnight in Banff. The Icefield Parkway is not to be missed and we cannot wait to return someday soon."
"We drove along the Parkway and stopped to go on the glacier, breath taking! The weather was warm for spring so it was a very pleasant experience. Staff were very knowledgable"
"We took the first trip of the day, and there were only 8 people in total on the tour, and we had the glacier to ourselves. Our two children loved it, especially the ice explorer. The guides are friendly and knowledgeable and they make the trip interesting with trivia. The mountains and glacier are just beautiful. It is pricey, but we used our CAA card to get a discount. Go on the first trip of the day to avoid the crowds, and go in the morning to avoid the winds that seem strong every afternoon."
"It Was So Pretty With Everything Covered In White, Except The Occasional Blue Glacial Ice On Some Of The Mtns...They Were Clearly Marked, So You Wouldn't Miss Them."
Not as exciting as we had hoped. Pretty boring attraction. Maybe fun if you had children for the learning experience but this wasn't our thing.
This area is absolutely beautiful and is a must see if you are in the Jasper-Banff area. The tour onto the glacier are a bit pricey but well worth it!
"I write this review with two points of view,1st it is one of the wonders of the world , a fantastic view of the glacier, if you are going on Hwy 93 you can't miss it.2nd When I first saw this wonderful glacier as a boy the ice was right at the highway, now it is at least 5 miles back from the road. So my point is that in a few years it will simply not be there. I see no reason to have vehicles making a business of driving buses with four wheel drive up on to the glacier countless times a day. If this trend continues I would suggest you go soon as it won't be there for much longer.Please go and see it, it's a great experience just STAY OFF THE ICE"
"Here is your chance to be right there in the glacier. You can feel, touch and even breathe the atmosphere. The slow journey up to the top by the Icefield Explorer is exciting and the narrative was very informative. It was really nice to meet an Aussie girl working as a guide in Columbia Ice Fields!"
"If you have never been on a real Glacier, here's your chance. There is great place to stop for a bite to eat, and to sign up for a tour of the Glacier. You can't go up there alone by yourself, but the tours are fairly priced, and you will have a great guide and be driven up in a specially made vehicle to traverse snow and ice."
"Travelled the Icefields Parkway on transfer from Calgary to Jasper.What an amazing journey, mountain after mountain and lots of glaciers."
"The glacier is breathtaking, take a tour on the glacier. The tourist centre is very educational. I felt the superior power of nature at that place."
"When we visited in June, the weather had been overcast and rainy. It cleared up that evening and was perfect for the next day. We took the trip to the top of the ice field and were delighted. it was worth every penny."
"Once in a lifetime, truly recommend. Guide was ""Wes"" truly a legend
Mountain lion tracks in the snow and the ice falls absolutely beautiful"
"WOW- if you really want to see what pure water looks like- see this place. Glacier water has a deep blue tint caused by pressure when glaciar was formed. you can see this under the snow and you will think you are standing on glass ! MUST MUST SEE THIS PLACE, excellent education for kids"
"It was really wonderful to walk on the Glacier at the Columbia Icefields, The transport to the fields from the visitor centre is on the big all terrain vehicles huge...."
"Because I come from Alberta it's hard for me to rate this. I have been going to the Columbia Ice Fields for about 35 years so I know what it looked like back in the day and it really has changed quite a lot. The walking trail at the base of the glacier has a very good, informative and well narrated signs along the route. If you have never been there, I would recommend it as it is in the heart of the rockies. Make sure to dress warm, yes even in the summer months. ."
It was great in summer but access was very limited in winter. This was a pity because the weather was perfect and we had negotiated a rather marginal Icefields Parkway to get there. Even so we got some great photographs.
The scenery is spectacular and amazing. Its well worth a visit. We had a lovely sunny day and the staff were very informative and funny.
"Great excperience going from Banff to the Columbia Icefields and walking on the glkacier. The water from the glacier flows eventually to three oceans - Atlantic, Pacific and Arctic. Used a audi device we got in Banff that describes scenic spots along the way. If you drove, get one in Banff."
"It was great to get up that close to a glacier and i thought it was awesome that they had markers showing where the glacier went to in prior years so you can see how much it has receeded which is quite significant.I did not take the oversnow to drive over the glacier as i thought it was too expensive, but i was happy enough doing the walk along the front of it and reading the information boards there. From the icefields center there is a great view of both the athabasca and dome Glacier to the right and when there are clouds scraping the peaks of the mountains it's quite breathtaking."
"Dont miss this drive if you are going to be near Jasper or Banff! We took it slowly and stopped at many of the sites, falls, vistas along the way. On our return trip the next day, we encountered several bears along the drive. We were able to pull off the road and safely get photos while watching the young bears hunt and dig for food, roots, etc. The beauty of this drive cant be compared to anything else on our continent! Truly amazing!"
Great views of ancient woods and the Glacier with a ride on the special Icefield passenger vehicle - spectacular - need good weather though and we did see it in the sun as well as the rain
"The different colours of this places called our attention as well as the big glacier on the top, Athabasca Glacier, The medows that we saw where beautiful. Diferent colours, water, trees, snow, soil, rocks. This is one of the things that I liked more."
An awesome view of the tip of a vast Glacier which I first visited in 1993. Having returned in 2012 the glacier has receeded 100s of meters a clear example of our warmimg planet. This is where Canadas and North Americas water comes from and it is slowly dissappearing. Doom and gloom over with it is outstandingly beautiful and a must see.
"Given the cost of the adventure, saying you did this when a lot of the glaciers have disappeared due to climate change will be the real value. Other than that, you see the marvel of this location just as well from the bottom of the glacier as you do from the top and you save a boat load of money."
"My son and I drove the highway 93 (Icefields Parkway) from Jasper to Lake Louise recently. This drive is truly humbling and beautiful. I would recommend the drive to anyone who wants to really experience the beauty and splendour of the Canadian Rockies. If you have an interest in physical geography, you will be absolutely bowled over by the glaciers along the Columbia Ice Field. In addition, if you want to experience the wildlife (moose, elk, mountain goats) this is the place to do it. We did the drive in the winter (November) when conditions were somewhat poor and would recommend driving carefully, but it was worth the drive. I can't wait to do the same drive in the summertime. When you arrive at Lake Louise, would recommend having lunch at the Fairmont Chateau Lake Louise as we did. That's a real treat and the icing on the cake after a lovely drive to reach the hotel. It also provided a nice break before we did the return drive. Surprisingly, the return drive was equally breathtaking as we took in the Rockies from the opposite perspective on the way back. The drive took us approximately 2.5 hours there and back to Jasper so make it a day excursion."
The Hwy is beautifull but the Columbia Ice Field itself was crowdy and cetainly not the best thing to do and see.
great place to visit. we arrived on the glacier and were meet by a ice blizzard for about 10 minutes. What an experience! Snow Coach broke down due to non-functioning door so we were transferred to another coach. Popular spot for Ossies drivers.
This is an amazing stop but it's very sad to see the changes in the size of the ice field over the years. It was crowded even in mid-September.
We enjoyed the coach journey from Jasper on the scenic Icefields Parkway followed by the 4WD bus ride onto the Athabasca Glacier. The scenery here is supurb and walking on the glacier is an unforgettable experience.
"We didn't expect to see this glacier when we were traveling south. It is very large and sits very high in the mountains. It is a high walk up to the glacier so beware if you have heart or respiratory problems. The signs there will explain. Apart from that, just take in the scenery."
We happened to hit a bright sunny day for this trip and I got beautiful photos. The guide was informative. We had enough time to explore the glacier.
"We only visited the centre, having been to many glaciers previously. The centre was very well done with good exhibits."
"it's a long walk from the road, and a bit sloppy so bring appropriate footwear. Follow posted signs as it becomes dangerous to get too close (crevasses)"
Ride into Columbia Ice Fields on an a large all terrain vehicle with experienced drivers to see a blue iced glacier. It's incredible to imagine that this glacier has melted so much and will continue as we travel in a diesel powered vehicle to visit.
"Definitely worth a visit, never seen anything like it. It is a shame it is melting. It is a short but steep hike up, could be a hard work for elderly people, I am 31 and I had to stop to catch my breath."
"Enjoyed our trip up the Glacier, it was very snowy and very cold by the time we got onto the Glacier .Apparently it snows frequently so be prepared, warm clothes essential .We did have to wait a while to get onto coaches to take us to the special Glacier transport.If you have a choice pick a sunny day to go ,but you never can tell in the mountains."
Simon was our driver and educator. The information he told us about the Glaciers kept the adults and children interested and entertained. Even at the end of the season he was still interested in making sure we enjoyed our visit.
"Absolutely a must for anyone traveling to Banff or Jasper. This icefield is gigantic. Yet, it has lost much of its bulk over the past hundred years. Markers show where the glacier stood at times in the past. You can walk or take a tour of the icefield. Truly, this is a once in a lifetime opportunity."
The ice field was an experience. The trip to the ice field was great. Riding on the large tire vehicle that takes you to and from the ice field was a trip in itself
"We took a Brewster Ice Explorer bus to the glacier . The guide was very knowledgable, but he couldn't disguise the fact that the glacier is melting. It seems it has already receded by a third since the nineteensixties, and also now we saw several streams of melting water. The main body of the Columbia Ice Field is still vast, but that is not the portion that you can visit. Maybe it is just as well, because I imagine that the exhaust fumes of the buses aren't really helping. The surroundings are very beautiful. Dress warmly and stay within the designated area, or you risk to fall in a crevasse and prolong your stay there forever."
We had a great time !! we paid & were taken out on the ice !! pretty cold all around that area !! needed a jacket on in Aug !! neat to see
"visited here in the last week of operation before closing for the season. great visit, awesome glacier driver very informed and helpful remember wrap up well it is very very cold"
The museum exhibits were very educational. And the knowledge that this is one of 6 places in the world with this kind of massive ice field is pretty interesting.
"Get a 3 activity ticket if you are going on to Banff. Two rides in coaches well organised and then you are on to the Icefield for a 20 or so minute walk around in the snow. Wonderful experience but as the icefields face north, taking good pictures towards the icefield not as good as you would probably like. Ride up 26 degree road at end is an experience in itself."
"My last visit was in 1969 and I was shocked at how far the ice fields have receeded since then. Did not go into the visitor centre, or actually go onto them with the tour, but drove to where, if energy could allow, you could walk up closer to them."
"Whilst the experience was quite expensive, it was quite good value for money. It needs to be done if you are in the area, as I have not come across an opportunity like this anywhere else - without having to pay for a guide for a 3 hour hike."
"After a fabulous drive from Jasper, we drove to the parking area from where you can walk to the toe of the glacier. A sunny day, so the glaciers glistened, as did the Icefield. Walked up the steep moraine pathway to the fenceline to see the glacier. We did this last year around 5pm, when there were very few people around, and we felt very adventurous. This does not actually get you on to the glacier itself, but still worth it."
"Actually the trip they offer doesn't really take you on the Columbia Icefield but on the Aththabasca Glacier. The Icefield is just visible on top of the mountains surrounding the glacier. But the whole view is amazing. Even if I have seen the glaciers in NZ and been on one in Austria, this is the biggest one I've ever seen. They take you on it in special Icecoaches and everyone who has never seen snow or been on ice will be seriously happy. Don't want to be there in high season though - it was extremely crowded even in october!"
"The surroundings are so beautiful and it is an experience to walk on the glacier,even for a short while.
The vehicles that take you onto the ice are impressive and the Japanese driver of ours was informative and hilarious.He really helped our experience."
We took the tour mobile onto the glacier. Sad to see how much it has receded over the last 50 years in photos. Still an amazing sight.
"Just riding out to the galcier is an experience itself, but when you stand on the glacier the wind is extremely strong. make sure that you have several layers of clothing with you including somnething that will keep out a cold wind."
"worth the money, from the highway we arrived at the visitor centre and looking across at the icefield almost changed our minds, it looked rubbish, but decided we were there so booked and it was fab. nice staff, bus takes you over the the BIG bus which slowly goes to the icefield. you get around half an hour on the ice and it is glorious. take an empt bottle so you can have some glacial water (its supposed to make you live longer)!"
"Everything about our trip to the Ice Fields was amazing - the terrifying ride down to the glacier, being able to wander all over it and take pictures, the info the driver gave us - fantastic. Pretty pricey for 4 people, but so worth it. Do not forget your camera!!"
Take the time to walk out on the ice. Be careful!! There are very deep crevices. Watch your every step. You actually can look down into the glacier. That same beautiful turquoise color is seen in the ice. If you are less adventurous take the snow coach. But they only run in the summer.
The bus trip is a must. Gets you out to the glacier and walk around. Something you can't do but in a very few areas of the US or Canada.
One MUST stop here for a visit. It is probably the only place on earth where you can stand on an ice field that is thousands of years old and many feet (or meters) thick. Brewster does a good job of getting people to and from the ice field and gives you a period of time to stand on the ice and take pictures. I do seem to recall that there was more of a tour years ago (like 40 years) where you got to walk up closer to see actual crevasses more clearly. Too many tourists these days to do that I suppose. And the ice has pushed back significantly in 40 years. Food at the center was pricey - and not that great - but filled the void. Scenery more than makes up for it!
It was our first experience on glacier in Rocky Mountain area.The ride on all-terrain Ice Explorer was just too good.Don't miss it.
"The Columbia Ice Field offers the visitor a wonderful museum before you board the bus to the Ice Explorers, which take you right onto the ice field. It was an awe-inspiring part of our trip to the Canadian Rockies. Don't miss it!"
"When you're driving down the Ice fields Parkway, you'll see a dirty patch of ice surrounded by mountains. That's the Columbia Ice Field Adventure. That dirty patch of ice is as far as you'll get, so don't expect to actually see or touch the Columbia Ice field (except to see the edge of it from down on the glacier)You'll pay $50 (!!) per person to get on a coach, which will drive you to the edge of the glacier. You'll then board one of the ice explorer coaches which will drive you on to the Athabasca Glacier. You'll have just 20 minutes to take some photos in a small 'ice carpark'. You are not allowed to venture any further onto the glacier. It really is a small area and you'll get a handful of nice photos at best. Then you'll get back on the ice explorer and make your way back to the centre across the road.We had an extra 20 minutes on the ice, because we missed our ice explorer back. The driver told us she'd honk the horn to let us know it was time, but she didn't. As we were walking back, she started to drive away. So we were stranded until the next coach left - which in all honestly was too much time. We'd already taken some photos, we couldn't walk anywhere beyond the marked area, so all we could do was stand and wait. It's sad that the glacier and the ice field have shrunk so dramatically. It feels very touristy, it's very expensive, and I left feeling like I was contributing to the degradation of a dying ice field."
"Cool to stand on a glacier, but go early so you have a chance of pictures not cluttered by busloads of tourists. We had just one snowcoach full (30-40 people?) at 10:30, and then rushed to take pictures because we saw 3 more coaches coming all at once just behind us. Good thing, rest of pictures had pushy Japanese photographers throughout. Their big-tire coach is unique, and the driver was a good guide, but in the end your just standing on a place they plowed out, kind of like an ice-covered parking lot. If you don't have the money, it is possible to park across the street and walk to the tongue of the glacier to touch it. (I did that a decade ago for free.) Be careful, as the paid guides stress how important it is to be with .... a paid guide ... to keep you safe if you go on the glacier."
"The glacier is beautiful to see, but also sad. Especially when you view all the signs of where the icefield used to be and where it is now. You can take a guided toor, or the bus up, but in the end we didn't, because it feels like it just adds to the melting of the glacier."
"Omg, loved the snow coach onto the glacier, it was amazing! Had a fantastic coach driver made it lots of fun, plus so cool to drive onto a glacier... This is something to add to your bucket list"
"To be honest, it is amazing that this ice field is so old but really you are paying £25 each to stand on a frozen ice carpark. You pays your money and takes your choice"
"The Visitor Centre of the Columbia icefields in approximately one hour on the way to Jasper. We drove from Calgary and decided to break the trip here, camp one night in a campsite very close to the Columbia icefields, and continue on to Jasper the day after.You can buy your ticket at the Visitor´s Centre. Tours depart very often. You first board a bus and then transfer to a huge ice explorer, a unique truck which huge tires cost 5000 dollars each.Your driver guide takes you on a very slow ride up to the middle of the Athabasca glacier, where you get about half an hour free time to walk on the glacier, drink glacier water, take pictures... Our guide was funny, knowledgable, thoughtful. He explained to us that the glacier recedes about 10 meters every year and how this is calculated; told us about the vegetation, the dangers of walking up a glacier without a guide, how to tell between glacier water that you can drink and when not to drink it, etc etc.It was an enjoyable trip. Walking on that ice that is as deep as the Eiffel tower is as tall and so much older, was intriguing and intimidating. Glacier water was ice cold of course, and very smooth. And learning about the formation and extinction of glaciers was interesting. The Columbia Icefileds, the largest of the Canadian rockies, will not be there forever. If you get a chance to visit and walk on it, don't miss it."
"One of the highlights of the trip! You can see the effects of receding glaciers over the last 150 years. Truly amazing. You can get very close to the glacier ice; lots of warning about walking on the ice, so you can hire a tour guide ($75/person) or take the snowcoach!"
If you don't believe in Global waming visit the Columbia Ice Fields. Visit soon at this rate the will be liltle more than a dirt valley in a few years.....sad that we are not making changes to halt the loss of this piece of history.
Millions of Bus Tourist take the ridicilous Icefield Buses only to walk on a glacier. The visitor Center is far behind any National Park Information Center
"A totally awsome place to visit, would visit it again if we go back that.
There was nothing that i didnt like about the Icefield area. Its just a wonderland of beauty and a masterpiece"
If you have never been on a glacier before you should do it. BUT - the system was like a conveyor belt to get you onto the glacier for a fifteen/twenty minute walk around.
"Once in a lifetime opportunity to drive and walk on a glacier! How amazing. The staff were incredible, couldn't complain at all. Full of personality and information. Definitely recommend this to anyone traveling through. Not to be missed."
"Breathtaking, but see it soon before it disappears. Locals predicting that in 10 years it may be gone."
"When we went from Jasper to Lake Louise we stopped at the Columbia Ice Field . The main attraction there is the special buses to the glacier. This ""pleasure"" is very expensive , and you can stay on a small place on the glacuer only 20 ninutes. This place is not ""virgin"" as many pepole were there before us.You have second opinion free of charge ' park the car at the other side and go (hike) to the glacier."
"We did the bus trip, amazing machines. We were with a group of around 30 people. This tour was part of our Rocky Mountain experience. The driver/guide was very pleasant but not quite as informative as she could have been. There's a Canadian flag flying in the ice which gives a great photo opportunity. The ice water is delicious - take an empty bottle with you to fill up. Down below at the information centre, the ladies toilet block is enormous, just a pity that so many were out of order and very untidy. The cafe offers a large selection of different types of food, we had a delicious soup, they manage amazingly well for such huge numbers of people. All in all a good experience."
"Our visit to the glacier was great. We went first thing in the morning which meant less crowds and we were able to move around on the glacier without too many people. Our guide, David was very helpful and knowledgeable - would recommend this trip"
A place not to miss on your road trip. Fantastic views every turn you take. Lots of photo opportunities and fantastic scenery everywhere you look.
OK $50 CSD seems pricey but imagine passing by and not taking the opportunity?? The drivers provided very comprehensive commentary on the way there and back and I wouldn't have missed the opportunity to say I've been there.
If you can afford it take the snow bus up onto the glacier - try to go when it is clear and sunny. Magnificent and a 'must do'.
"We got to walk on the Athabasca Glacier (part of the Columbia Ice Field) as part of our organised tour. It was a fine sunny day with little wind so quite pleasant out on the glacier. If you do this, go with a tour group as they keep you on parts of the glacier that are safe and free of crevasses."
"we booked the ice walk on the glacier. the company has all the necessary extra warm clothes, gloves, hats and crampons. it was an interesting tour with a lovely Australian guide and it was certainly a first for us."
"We stopped at the ice field but instead of taking the commercial bus trip opted to drive to a certain point and then hiked for 15-20mins (one way) to get a real close with the glacier, a lot of people do this. If you want to step on the glacier then suggest you go the commercial route as it is unsafe to venture there on your own."
We spent a day driving up the Columbia Ice Field Highway. The Ice Field Center is a nice break in the middle. The drivers were informative and you have about 30 minutes to walk on the glacier. How many times are you able to have the experience of standing on a glacier? This cost much less than the opportunity we had while cruising in Alaska to take an excursion to stand on a glacier. Be sure to take a warm jacket. It is much colder when you get to the glacier.
One can take a short trail to the rapidly receding edge of the Athabasca Glacier. Good views of Mt. Athabasca. Take the Wilcox Pass Trail to get better views.
"Everyone needs to take the time to walk on the glacier - it is a once in a lifetime experience - you may think it is expensive but remember you are walking on a glacier that is really, really, really old. The staff is great at telling the history and showing where the glacier started and where it is today. Once you have been to the glacier, when someone is really bugging you can tell them to ""Go Climb a Glacier"", they don't know how to respond."
A great experience and enjoy. It could be pretty cold if the weather is bad. The bus ride and ice field explorer guides were very infirmative and entertaining.
Went onto the glacier in the snow vehicle. Everything was organised well and it was snowing hard when we got on the ice. It was a great experience to see a glacier this close.
Starting the trip onto the Icefield in sunshine and coming back at 4 degrees Celsius 60 minutes later and snow was an experience. The trucks that take you out onto the Icefield are massive and the driver(s) know what they are talking about. Definitely worth the money and once you are back at the Visitors Centre there is a nice coffee bar to warm up again.
"Went on a giant 'Snow Coach' which consisted of travellling down a steep hill to the glacier and then allowed to walk on the glacier for 25 mins. Back on coach, up steep hill and that was it. All for $50 each which to me was a waste of money."
The icefield is huge and the walk out to it from the car park is mainly uphill but worth the effort. You can take a bus from the car park opposite which will then take you to the transporters which take you out on to the ice.The scenery surrounding the area is breathtaking.
"We went to the tour, It's was fantastic. We brought an empty bottle so we drank the water. Best water I tried in my life! A little sad that the Glacier is shinking."
"You sat through those geography lessons in school and it was vaguely interesting. Then you see the real thing and, although the ice field is in retreat, it's still very impressive."
We really enjoyed our trip to the glacier and it is a not to miss event.The driver/guide was very amusing and the glazier was awesome.You do need a coat with you and sunglasses to fully enjoy. Boots are not essential because you can't do that much walking.
"WOW!!! what a spectacular site. We visited the Ice field on our trip to Jasper. The ice bus is impressive. Our driver was informative and knowledge-able. When you visit be sure to bring an empty water bottle to enjoy the glacier melt. Best drinking water ever. Overall, when you are here, you feel insignificant. This ice is OLD!!!"
"Unless you live somewhere that doesn't get snow or ice,
This is boring. It's just like standing on your driveway after
It snows. The Icefields Parkway Scenic Drive is the real
Attraction, just stunning views, don't miss this !"
"A true ""outer worldly"" experience! The closest you may get to visiting another planet. Very cold and windy. . . with very slippery ice. Be aware this attraction is extremely crowded. Be prepared to wait! An experience you willnever forget!"
"We drove to the Columbia Icefield and paid to visit the Athabasca Glacier. It was a brilliant experience, we were actually on a mountain glacier :-). Something you're not likely to do too often, so definitely worth the money!"
Our drive to Jasper and back to Calgary takes us through the Ice Fields area and it is truly breathtaking. We have been on ice fields tours with foreign visitors as this is a must see site. Sometimes when riding through in the rain (my hubby is on motor bike while I have the car and dog) we stop for a meal to let him dry off and still enjoy the view though it may be foggy at times. It is a taste of what few get to see and it is on my annual treck to Jasper—make it your annual stop too.
"The price is worth seeing such a treasure close up, touching the ice, walking on it and drinking fresh glacial water. Take the kids and dress warm even if is hot at the base. Don't wear sandals as it is slippery. Enjoyed the ride up, the hosts supply alot of information about the ice. Don't miss seeing this."
You're bused via 2 buses to the edge of the ice field. They've cleared an area of 20 or so buses and people. You can't explore and you get about 20 minutes for photos. Great to say you've been on a glacier but really it's an over-priced tourist trap.
"The Ice Explorer is expensive, but worth the experience if you an afford it. For an alternate experience for free, you can drive almost right up to the base of the glacier and hike some. The vistors center has food and interesting displays downstairs. The deck out front at the top of the steps is the best place for photos. It is hard to grasp the size of the glacier. The furthest point of the raised portion at the back of the glacier is nearly 5 miles away!"
"my second time here! this one in a cooler month - we got caught in a mountain snowstorm on our way up! eek! but of course in Banff it was sunny and lovely!the buses took us up slowly to the top of the glacier, the tour guides were great, peppy and not irritating, and they warned us TIME AND TIME again not to get behind the other buses when walking (people still did) to be on time (people weren't) - gotta hand it to them to keep their patience!lots of neat views and just the thrill of wandering around the ice next to the canadian flag was so so cool! bring cold weather gear though!"
"Very interesting site, easy to travel to, thanks to the special vehicles. Bring a waterproof outer shell garment and proper shoes."
"There are spectacular mountains all around this huge glacier toe, so there is lots to see all around. Impressive stuff. The glacier has receeded several hundred metres since I first saw it 20 years ago, but then again it's hard to imagine the original ice sheet 10,000 years ago, which was 2 km thick and extended as far south as St. Louis."
"We visited the Icefield as part of our group tour. Our vist followed some rain during the night, which made the ice quite slippery to walk on, but wouldn't have missed it for the world. It was so cold and we were there mid July!. Just hard to believe that something like it exists and we are able to actually walk on it. A great tourist attraction and should not be missed by anyone."
"Visited the Columbia Ice Field a few days ago. The glacier itself was pretty impressive to see, but I'm not sure if the cost of the tour is worth it. $50 per person. If you want to step foot on the actual glacier then this is the way to go (and the safest) but is not that great of an experience. You ride a shuttle bus for 7 mins or so to the parking lot at foot of glacier. Hop on the snocoach that will take you on the glacier for around 10 mins. Then you get to stand in a small area of the glacier for 25 minutes. Have been on more fun tours. The food at the ice fields is also extremely bad. Pack a lunch."
"Booked this tour with Jasper Adventure Centre and the tour was run by Sun Dog. We had a small mini coach and there were 8 of us on the trip. We had a great guide/driver called Ben who was very informative about the area, the glacier and the best spots to take photos. We took the bus from the icefield centre to the snow coach and then had the best bus ride up the mountain, our driver Cat was good fun and had lots of interesting facts about the mountains, glacier and the snow coach itself. Great to stand on the glacier (wrap up warm) and drink the water. Definitely worth doing, the drive along the Icefields Parkway is breathtaking."
the heavy duty bus took us right onto the glacier. We filled our water bottles up with the best tasting water right from the glacier.
A great place to visit with incredible views of a natural wonder. The walk to the glacier view is no longer worth it as you cannot get to the glacier itself and therefore if you want to walk on the ice you need to use the tour.
"Long walk from parking lot to ice field, and a tricky walk if you have small children or elderly. The only bathroom was a single out house whose door did not lock."
"We took the special ""bus"" up onto the glacier and it was well worth it. We learned a lot about glaciers and were able to walk around on the ice. They also recommended the Wilcox Pass hike which offers amazing views of the mountains and glaciers."
"This is the first time in my life to see, touch, and stand on the Ice. My using a special bus, I reached the ice field. Many tourists come there especially from Asia. For the safety, the tourist may not cross the border that the officer has made. It's quiet sad anyway because you could not has experience walk afar on the ice. FYI: It's expensive."
"I was there in 1964 and could not believe how much the Ice fields have disappeared. Ben, our tour guide, was absolutely the best guide we have ever had."
"A complete contrast the the surroundng area. Take the trip onto the Icefields ,walk on the Glacier a one off experience!! Not much to see or do if you dont do this so go for it."
A geography lesson on glaziers! I'd love to bring school kids here. It's much colder than anywhere else so bring your coat and walk the short trail around the front of this amazing glazier. Not something you can do everyday. Park right at the base.
travelling from banff to jasper visited the ice field and was not disappointed - enjoyed walking on the Glaciers and our driver was very informative driving onto the glacier.. worth the time to visit..
"We did the tour up the ice fields, great tour guide made it fun and interesting, and it was cool to do."
"Getting onto the icefield in that awesome transporter and then the fantastic scenery of the glaciers in the mountains, breathtaking! from up close."
"Called in on the way through to Banff. It has an undoubted novelty value in that you get the opportunity to walk on the glacier and have a ride in the big snow buses. A bit pricey for what you get to do but I can see why the cost is there when you hear about the investment made. In my view, an expensive novelty"
"We had been looking forward to visiting this area for a while and weren't disappointed. The trip out to the ice was full of interesting information and our guide on the icefield was very knowlegeable and passionate about the subject! It's just one of those amazing natural phenomena you have to see. The centre itself was a little disappointing, with rather tacky but expensive souvenirs and the information displays were a little uninspiring Would still recommend though."
The whole expereince is absolutely brilliant. I will not say more as I don't want you to enjoy it as much as I did.
"The drive is a must see, especially for anyone living in the US or Canada. We drove from Calgary to Jasper in one day. Spent 2 nights in Jasper, then on our way back spend 2 nights in Lake Louise and 2 nights in Banff. Definitely a bucket list trip. Well worth it."
"Even if you don't take the bus tour, the icefield centre is still a worthwile stop to have a feel of the area / glacier and see the change over the years (knowing that the glacier was where you parked your car now is really a shock !). Also, don't miss the exhibition in the lower level, which is good for the kids (and also the adults indeed) in order to have a better understanding of how it forms etc. We also did the bus tour, though not cheap, but it was good given you still felt very different standing on the glacier and of course, the kids (particularly the boys) would appreciate the ride on those giant bus powered by 6-drive wheels. You might also consider buying a combined ticket with the Banff Gondola in the icefield centre."
"The Columbia Ice Field tour gives one the rare opportunity to drive on and them walk on a glacier. For a large family, it can be a bit pricey, but it is a 'once in a lifetime' opportunity (otherwise one could charter a helicoper to bring you to a glacier, but that is alot more $$'s). We enjoyed our hour trip and found the guides on both busses to be very knowledgeable and give an excellent narration throughout the entire ride. We recommend this one."
It costs a lot of money to stand on this glacier for 20 minutes.I guess the thrill of doing something like this has its negative side affects eh?
"Peyto Lake an uphill hike with a view from a wooden platform. Great views. Looks like the post cards. Wear mosquito spray (not too many but persistent) and bring your camera for lots of wild flowers shots as well as the view. This roadway from Lake Louise to Jasper is what I think makes the Canadian rockies so special. Don't miss. Lots of turn outs and photo opportunities. Eat at Lake Louise Village, pack a lunch or stop at Iceway Park house visitors center about 1/2 way. There is a cafe and the hamburgers were actually prietty good. With the view- terrific! Tip- if handicap coming with you pullinto buses only area as a slight incline ramp to get into. If park in car or RV area, Long, Long steep uphill ramp or lots and lots of stairs."
"Amazing to see how quickly it is declining, the markers showing where it used to be are amazing. We hiked it, I really can't imagine paying to ride the bus, I think the hike was well worth it!"
If you've never walked out on a glacier then this is well worth the effort. The guide we had was knowledgable and interesting and was happy to answer any questions. You can drink the water melting from the glacier; apparently it is quite safe.
"We hiked galciers in Alaska, once youv'e done that, this is a distant second. The walk to the edge of the glacier is long and uphill, not worth it and too comercialized."
be sure to have bug spray with you.... but you park off the hi-way and you walk right up on the Glaser..... make sure you have something comfortable to wear on your feet. plan on the afternoon... It really is that good!!!!!!
"Went independently by car on the way from Lake Louise to Jasper. Wrap up well and wear sensible shoes, it is much colder on the Glacier than at the visitor centre. Took the bus up to the special glacier vehicles, walked on the glacier for 25 minutes. lunch in the visitor centre cafe was mediocre and expensive. Glacier visit well worth the money. Go as early as you can before the bus tours arrive, or later in the afternoon."
"We had planned a stop here and a journey onto the glacier on our way from Jasper to Banff. The scenery is simply stunning and we were just talking about how the Glacier mus be close by when I spotted the visitor centre and car parks.Desperate for coffee we headed straight for the cafe and were quickly served and seated at the windows with a wonderful view. The cafe is excellent and seems to have something to cater for all tastes (even some obscure Chinese dishes!)We had discussed taking the bus up onto the glacier itself but very quickly realised that not only was this very expensive $40 per person but once up there we would just be looking back at the car park. So a group (myself, mother and cousin) executive decision was made to skip standing on a 'giant ice cube'.The views up onto the glacier from the road and the car park are spectacular so we managed quite a few photos and panoramas.Definitely worth a stop off and a look......definitely not worth paying a fortune to go on a big funky bus!"
"The Bus ride onto the Athabasca was a highlight of our trip.
It was well narrated, and informative.
We bought the combination ticket and enjoyed the boat trip and gondola ride as well."
Awesome!! Go late in the day and get less people and more of a personal experience. The bus drivers are warm and friendly and know there stuff. The one we had was extremely comical which made it fun.
"We paid for the slow ride on the tractor-bus to the glacier from the Icefield Centre. They let us out on the ice for about 30 minutes, but you are in a very controlled location. It was worth it, but next time I'd like to try the guided walk."
"Very interesting to learn about icefields and glaciers (check out the visitor centre). Lots of tourists teeming about, but enough space for everyone. Worth it to do the short hike through the forefield, where it is very rocky and where the glacier used to be. Lots of signs that say not to walk on the glacier, I stood on the very edge and grabbed my photo shot. With global warming, phenomenoms like this won't be around forever."
"We booked on one of the Ice Cubed walks on the Athabasca Glacier - you have to book early because they sell out - we were slightly confused by the information on the internet about the booking office in Jasper, which has recently moved to Patricia Street, but the phone numbers are the same.Normally the walks run in the morning, which means an early start because you have to be there by 10.00am to get fitted with crampons etc, but in the peak season they also run some afternoon walks at 1.00pm. The Icefield is about 1h 20 from Jasper and 2h 30 from Banff, so if there's an afternoon tour you can do it whilst transferring between the two and still have time to see the Athabasca Falls on the way.The group (14 plus guide) meets in the lower parking lot nearest the glacier, just opposite the icefield centre. The guide provides waterproof jackets and trousers, hiking boots if necessary (trainers/hi-tops are not really suitable), gloves and hats and instep crampons. We used our own jackets, but in retrospect we would have used theirs, as we got absolutely soaked by rain and hail and were left with a lot of very wet clothes to deal with. You definitely need sunglasses, and sunblock is also advisable.The weather is unpredictable: the day we went it was hot and sunny in Jasper and Banff, but on the glacier it ranged from sunshine to driving hailstorms (see pictures). I wore a T-shirt, cotton shirt, fleece and waterproof and felt comfortable - there is quite a lot of standing around, so you need to be warmly dressed.After some very basic instruction we set off from the car park across to the foot of the glacier, where we crossed a river by walking across a plank and put on our crampons (which are very effective - no need to worry about slipping). The guide provided a lot of information and we walked at a fairly slow speed - we were offered a hand to help us over any streams and stopped frequently. We were able to look into crevasses and millwells, and various other features were pointed out to us. When the bad weather started the guide confirmed that it was safe to proceed, but offered us the choice of an early return - the decision to continue was unanimous! We walked up to - and across - the road used by the tour buses. It was rather a shame to have the vehicle noise disturbing the natural surroundings, but when we were further away from the road they were less intrusive. Our walk lasted approximately 4 hours.Our guide was well informed and caring, ensuring that the pace of the group was dictated by the slowest members. There was also plenty of opportunity for photography - all in all it was a wonderful and unforgettable trip. Highly recommneded."
"The drive over the Columbia Ice Field is amazing !Unfortunately, it was a bit foggy when we've been so we didn't take the bus to go on the icefield but the drive over the region was amazing ! We saw a grizzly and a black bear on the side of the road."
I had visited the ice fields 18 years ago and to see how much the ice has receded in that time is mind stunning! It is still a spectacular site to see.
"The guides are knowledgeable and funny, obviously like their jobs. The snow coaches are comfortable and offer great views during the short trip. Have a drink of the water, bring a sweater, and enjoy - this is awesome!"
A great place to visit. Breath taking views of glaciers and mountains. The Ice Explorer ride was pimped out. amazing site and scenary.
"In the middle of the 289km from Jasper to Banff. It's a good place to stop, rest, eat and do an unbelievable ride. Starts with a bus which led you to the mountain. Afterwards you get a huge bus, like the tires are human-size and go to the middle of the Glaciar. The stay there for only 10 min (less then we wanted). But this time is the best, ice everywhere, and the blue ones. You can even drink the water from the glacier. It's is possible to get a walk ride, but not to the glacier, I mean if you want to ride safely. Many people cross the limits. The great thing is doing both rides: by walk and by bus. In total consider 2-3hs staying there."
"We drove into the area for car access. We had two seniors with us. After parking quite a ways away due to the busy day, we realized that a huge flight of stairs was necessary to reach the site. Unable to complete the flight of stairs, our seniors stayed at the bottom while I continued up to a very overpriced, rude dining establishment. 55$ for two simple sandwiches, a couple bags of chips, 4 bottles of juice and some chocolate bars. Complete gouging of tourists! Rude uncaring service. I realize this is a busy busy place but I don't believe it is hard to use your manners!"
OK there are great views and the whole thing of getting on the big bus and driving on the IceField is cool. But then you just stand around for 20 mins on the snow take photo's and back you go. Glad we did it but not something we'd feel we had to do again. Restaurant facilities cahotic
Don't get me wrong! The glacier is still there - but a lot less of it than the last time we saw it in 1996. The whole highway from Jasper to Canmore is exciting but this stopping point has the most to offer. It is also worth stopping at the Sunwapta waterfall just south of Jasper and of course Lake Louise is also accessed from the highway.
"Well organised, with plenty of time to eat and sightsee before travelling to the Glacier. Its amazing how far it has retreated."
"Here's an opportunity to get ""up close and personal"" with a glacier. Be careful though; it's best to be accompanied by a guide!"
"Scenery was beautiful, Lakes are gorgeous Wildlife is interesting and abundant. Town of Jasper interesting. Hotel needs to be closed"
"We arrived at the ice field uncertain whether to bother paying for the trip onto the glacier but after watching others venture upwards decided to give it a go. The trip isn't cheap at 50dollars each but the ride in the ice explorer alone was great fun. The buses take you right onto the glacier close to the snow field and the views of the glaciers are stunning. The guides were knowledgable and kept safety at the forefront of everything. I was amazed to see tourists risk their lives and those of the guides by straying off the safe area though, why don't people listen to common sense? All in all a great experience and well worth it."
Didn't have nice experience as it was too hot and sunny when i visited.Glacier was melting and water flow was fast.Even guide was saying that this was the hottest day at top of glacier since last 45 yrs.Hard luck for me.BUt worth going there.Overall trip is of 90mts.I was wearing halfsleeves shirt and was taking snap at Ice glacier.
"For Mendehall visited Glacier is missing something, but it is a beautiful place to visit! For Mendehall visited Glacier is missing something, but it is a beautiful place to visit!"
Need to make this trip at least once in a lifetime. The icefield is shrinking fast so better get there soon
"It was ok, a good place to stop for a short break. (However, we had the opportunity to visit the Hubbard Glacier in Alaska and it is by far more stunning. I am sure it not fair to compare them, but we couldnt help it!)"
The centre at the Icefields know there is no where else around to eat and charges the most ridiculous prices for everything - the most expensive we had in the whole of three weeks in the Rockies
A spectacular sight with a well organised guide giving the history of the area and the glacier. Can get crowded at certain times of the day.
"We really enjoyed this trip, very well organised, lots of good information , friendly guides and excellent catering facilities before going out onto the glacier.
A unique experience, if you get chance go!"
"Sounds a little lame, but worth the trip onto the glacier. We drank glacier water and walked around on the glacier. Great photo ops!!!"
"The snowbus tour onto the Columbia Icefield, is a must do....the vehicles have tires that are $5k each and they can go and DO go down 38 degree inclines. Walking on the glacier and seeing the icy blue water, the scree, mountain sheep and all the great views was well worth the wait. If you buy the ticket in advance with another attraction, you can save some money."
"We found ample parking and clean restrooms. Be prepared to go through two lines. The first one is to buy the tickets and the second one is to board the bus to the glacier. Wear a warm sweater and wind/rain protection. Near the glacier, you get off the bus and board a special vehicle to go onto the glacier. They take you up the glacier and you get to see it up close. You don't have any significant walking to do. I think this is the most interesting thing to do in the Canadian Rockies. Don't miss it!!!"
"The operators are very well set up and provide a great trip across to and then onto the Glacier. It is great to be able to get to the middle of a glacier without having to climb the ice. The guides are very knowledgable and provide some good humour on the way over. The drive on the glacier is exciting and then being able to get out and walk aroung is great. Drink the ice water, it is pure and cold."
"we teavelled with Sundog tours, a small group of 6 people and James our driver. The scenery was stunning, and to see 3 bears was one of the highlights of our holiday. because there were only 6 of us in the coach, the driver was able to go off the schedule route and we were able to see and hear more sights."
We where picked up in a couch type bus and was disapointed but I was wrong we where taken to a tranfer staton then it all begain we boarded the snow bus it is so safe we were given so much info I have even drank water that could be 700 years oldthe blue and green colours of the glacier Fab a must see
"This is one of my favourite trips in jasper, and I highly recommend it. Still I w as a bit bummed about the safety regulations not allowing people off the parking lot on the glacier. Certainly there were no crevasses apparent on the ice just above the bus area. Perhaps brewster needs to make a pedestrian walk above their bus parking lot if they're going to continue with the dangerism policy. I've been up on the the ice above the the busses 3 times including this time, & 20 & 30 yrs ago."
"The overall view is best taken from the Centre on main road, but walk to glacier from lower car park and you can get about 50 metres away from edge of glacier, this free as against the Glacier trip onto ice by special coaches but at 55$ pper person, not good value I feel.You can walk on glaciers in other places in world for nothing, they are dangerous though!.You can have a guided walk with a trained guide and small numbers of people but I do not know the cost.It can be cold so get dressed up as wind off glacier is always cold, look up towards the glacier, we heard it cracking and could hear avalanches up on high"
We did not take the bus up to the glacier but took several photos of the glacier and cannot believe it is as thick as the Eiffel tower is tall. Amazing
"Good guide, good transportation and an excellent opportunity to walk on a real glacier. It´s a must do visit."
"We didn't take the shuttle that goes up to the glacier, but we regretted it. The hiking trail does not go all the way to the snow."
Travelling on the Athabasca glacier by snowmobile & getting out & walking around was just out of this world.
"This is accessed from the icefield parkway, in itself something not to be missed. Glacial tours available from the Icefield Centre - a must do if you haven't been on a glacier before"
Use the Ice Explorer to get out there and walk on the icefield. Watched the more intrepid hike up from the bottom. Ice thick as Eiffel Tower is high. Substantial melt going on--people were filling bottles with icy water running off the glacier.
"Very interesting trip to the Ice Field, with knowledgeable guide and the opportunity to walk on the ice. Downside was the length of the queue to get on the coach that took us to the specialist ice vehicle - and it wasn't especially busy on the day we visited."
