"When we were visiting the parking lots, and the road were being undated so the traffic was limited to those with 2 hour permits. If we had more time we would have continued further down the trail. Next time we are this way I will add this trail to my to do list"
"I went to the visitor center at 7:00am the first morning in Jasper to get my 4:00pm permit for the next day to enjoy the views of Mount Edith Cavell. I took a chance to go later, being the gate at the end of the road closed at 6:00pm (or was it 7:00? ), meaning you would be locked in for the night if you didn't get out in time. I went later in the day because of the intense desire to see the glacier calve, which was a GREAT choice!!! One thing I've learned throughout the years around glaciers is that when it's warmer out, it's best to see calving happen later in the day due to the buildup of heat weakening and separating the ice and causing intense calving. I ended up seeing the seagull (some say angel, though it don't look like that to me) calving from its wing into its tail. SPECTACULAR. It's easy to know when it happens. You hear very loud cracking, rocks falling and the glacier sliding downward. I saw that when on the ridge on the trail. I didn't go any further than that on the trail, due to limited time, plus the fact that I spent a lot of time down by the pond that has an unusual color, depending on lighting (different from Peyto Lake, Emerald Lake, Moraine Lake or Lake Louise). It is absolutely breathtaking down there!!! You see it all up close and personal: beautiful inland pond glacier (reminds me slightly of Perito Moreno in the Patagonia, near the Chile, Argentina border, though not nearly as large), reddish color rock with iron deposits around the pond, bergy bits and growlers (different size icebergs), the hanging glacier I call the seagull (Angel), waterfalls and beautiful mountains!!! You can even have a (gentle) slushball fight with someone at the pond, like I did. You could also drink the glacier water here, which has a noticeable silt consistency in it. I will warn you there is a sign not to go directly down to the pond due to the threat of large glacier calving, which could cause a tidal wave. I won't necessarily recommend you go down to the edge, but I deemed it safe enough for me when taking certain precautions: always having an escape route when hearing glacier shifting (cracking, stones falling, etc), of which I ran up once, noting where there were no trees growing, which is a sign of regular wave activity, as well as where the small trees were bent backward or forward, again showing some , but not as frequent, wave activity. Of course, it's smartest to be above that area, if you desire to do so. No matter what you decide to do, make sure you come to visit here!!! This is the most beautiful place to visit in Jasper National Park that can take little effort if you stay near the platform. It's pretty easy for elderly persons in decent shape to stop here. If you have limited mobility, it may be a little bit long of a walk. I recommend to come later in the day to see glacier calving and be willing to spend time to do so. It's not reasonable to go, watch two minutes, see it, then leave. It don't work that way. You never know when it will happen. It's VERY worth seeing here!!! In conclusion, you MUST STOP HERE!!! You won't regret it one bit. It's a stop of a lifetime!!!  Thanks for reading. If you feel this information has helped you, it would be appreciated if you would tap the button below. Thank you."
"Scenic drive to the start of the trail, nice walking paths, not too far to walk, very scenic, well worth the drive up! Beautiful glacier!"
"You will need to get a permit to park near the Edith Cavell trail.Go to the visitor center. Permits are given out between 8-10 am for that day and the next day. Advise to go and line up at 7:30 and get a permit for the next day to ensure you get one. They give permits for 4 times during the day. And allow 30 min drive to check in- then a 30 min drive to parking lot.GREAT hike- it climbs for most of the hike past the paved area that goes near the base of Angel Glacier. Highly recommend hiking to top- where it levels off and makes a great picnic stop with perfect view of 3 Glaciers.From there you have a choice to continue up to the ridge- strenuous climb. But, not much better views than the clearing area.Glacial lake is a beautiful aqua blue! Amazing!"
Beautiful trail that can take you to several places -one relatively easy the other not so much! The easy one takes you to a small lake formed by three glaciers that are right in front of you with a waterfall pouring into it. Angel glacier is right in front of you up high with two others to the side. A beautiful site only a mile or so up a paved path. The other is a continuation up switchbacks that is more challenging and gets you to an upper area from which you can see far more. Very worth the visit!
"What a placed to visit and to walk in. It has everything. Wonderful views, a challenging walk, marmots, ground squirrels, grey jays, picas and lovely wild flowers. A perfect spot to spend the day hiking."
"The Edith Cavell Meadows is a spectacular and incredible scenic hike in Jasper with breathtaking views of landscapes including beautiful flowery meadows, glaciers and mountains. In 2017, the hike requires a permit as they are doing constructions on the road leading to the trailhead and only allow a limited number of cars in per day. You can pick up a permit for one of four times each day (8:30 am, 11 am, 2 pm and 4 pm) between 8 and 10 am at the Parks Canada Information Centre in town. I lined up at 7 am on the day before I wanted to do the hike and was able to get a permit for my preferred time of 8:30 am the following day. I suggest lining up early as the line got quite long and not everyone got the time they wanted. The trail starts off gently climbing a partially paved path along the Path of the Glacier. It leads to a viewing area overlooking the Angel Glacier and Cavell Pond, where the views are amazing and you feel so close to the scenery. But the views just keep getting better along the rest of the trail! The trail then continues to climb uphill as it passes over the rocky moraine and then enters the subalpine forest before opening up to the beautiful meadows with colourful wildflowers above the treeline. There are stunning views of the glacier and mountains throughout the hike. The mosquitoes were relentless and aggressive along most of the hike and whenever I stopped to take a photo or admire the views or rest my legs, they attacked me almost immediately, which was really unfortunate. I didn't bring insect repellent but it would have been a good idea. I saw lots of hoary marmots along the hike as well, which were super cute. Before you reach the main lookout at the end of the trail, there is a junction with two options - an easier and a more difficult route. I took the easier climb as the difficult one looked much steeper and was pleased with that choice. I ended up taking the difficult path on the way down instead. I heard three avalanches along the way to the top which was a pretty unforgettable experience. I finally reached the main lookout on the trail and was in complete awe at how gorgeous the surrounding scenery was. I felt so close to the mountains and the Angel Glacier. The views were breathtaking! There is another optional trail to climb a very steep trail even higher up the mountain, but I chose not to do that. The hike was consistently and steadily uphill from start to finish, with some steeper sections and some gentler ones along switchbacks, but it was totally manageable for someone of good fitness. I did it, and I am from the flat Prairies where I never hike elevations like this. I recommend going slow and taking lots of breaks if you're getting tired and use hiking poles. They helped a lot, especially with going downhill. Also, bring lots of water and snacks as there is nowhere nearby to purchase anything. The temperatures get much colder and windier at the top of the trail, so wear warm layers as well. In total, this round trip hike took me 3.5 hours to complete including all of my many stops along the way. If you are looking for a fantastic and incredibly rewarding day hike in Jasper (it takes about 40 minutes to get from town to the trailhead parking lot) with stunning natural beauty, I HIGHLY HIGHLY recommend this one. It was the best hike I have ever done so far and I feel like very few hikes will compare to this one."
This is not for grandma. You gain over 500 m in about 4 kms but it's definitely worth it for the view over the glacier. You can see over the top of the glacier to the mountain behind. Kids loved sliding down the snow pack at the top
The hike up is a tiresome walk but is worth the view at the top. It roughly takes 8 hours up and down with breaks. The final stretch is more of a scramble up with a tough incline. You get a great view of the glacier and it's lake below.
"After a long journey climbing a mountain to get to the access point, we arrived at Edith Cavell and witnessed why it is such a popular site. The contrast of water, glacier, mountain and forest was heavenly, and I was told you can hear the glacier crackling itself. Note when we went there in early July, that the second half of the main path was closed off due to an aggressive bear, so keep that in mind. We did not encounter any of them on our trek there, however. It is about a 15-20 minute walk of moderate incline from the parking lot to the site where we took pictures of the glacier. Definitely beautiful and worth the extra drive. Note it is about a 30 minute drive from the highway.Note that during the 2017 season, the parks are working on expanding the parking lot so there is limited access to the site and you will require a permit from the Jasper information center in town (they hand them out first thing in the morning between 8-10am situated in a table outside). You can select one of four times and there is a timeframe you can use the permits for. When we went there, despite being a busy weekend, we managed to get one for a few days later (lots of availability). Same-day permits were obviously taken quicker, but there was still one time left towards the end of the two hour window, to give you a reference point.Please kindly indicate if you found this review to be helpful as it will allow me to better focus my future efforts! Much appreciated - hope you have a great time and safe travels!"
"Let me start by telling everyone that the road to Edith Cavell is under construction and only 180 cars are allowed in at one time. The times are staggered and you need to get permits at the visitor's center either on the day, starting at 8am, or you can get tickets for two days in advance. This sight is amazing and worth the effort. Here there is a good chance of meeting a bear!Its cold at the top so you need a windbreaker."
"My boyfriend and I did this hike last weekend! It was absolutely worth it. We stood in line at 8:00am to get our pass and there were still quite a bit left (for same day). I am no expert hiker so I felt this was a moderate trail. The last part of the hike to the top was fairly steep and super windy, but well worth the view at the top! In total it took us approx. 3 hours (2 hours up because I liked to take breaks and about 1 hour down). Highly recommend this hike :)"
"It takes awhile go get here (hope you don't get car sick b/c the roads are very windy, as in lots of twists/turns). 30 min into the drive up, I really thought it wasn't going to be worth it...Thankfully, it exceeded my expectations in every way and turned out to be my favourite part of Jasper. After parking, you walk up a pebbly trail to the first scenic point. You can continue on from there to tougher trails, but we did not. At this viewpoint, you get stunning views of the mountains and glaciers (Angel glacier for 1)...pack a lunch, sit awhile and enjoy the view. It's absolutely breathtaking, and every once in awhile, you hear the crash of the ice/snow as an avalanche occurs from afar! TIP: bring sunscreen...high UV up here."
"The trail will take you to a lake in which a huge part of a glacier has fallen, a couple of years ago. At the time, the wave flooded the parking lot, and the signs are still there to this day. Nonetheless, the trail is safe to walk, and it only takes 10 minutes to get tot the lake. From the trail, you get a fab view of the lake and the glacier hanging above it. SO there is no need to put yourself in danger by getting under the glacier or doing other silly stuff off the trail. So, be safe and enjoy this fantastic site!"
"Absolutely worth the short drive to get to the 'meadows' - great views immediately, but if you walk an extra half hour you see the snowy mountain face, with its angel wings glacier, a ghost glacier, and an icey lake below catching falling ice - really spectacular. It is quite high, so walking is noticeably 'breathtaking', but worth it."
"The drive to the parking lot is quite exciting, but then you can walk this trail to a viewing point which overlooks a small, ice-filled lake. Hanging above the lake is the massive Angel glacier. The path from the parking lot is quite steep in places, but has a reasonable surface so is not too strenuous if taken slowly. The views of this majestic mountain are simply awesome and should not be missed. After returning to the parking lot, we had a picnic lunch, during which we just sat and admired the raw beauty all around us."
We drove to see the glacier and hiked up to see the views. While we were hiking we could hear the ice cracking above and arrived at the top just in time to watch it slide down the mountain into the water below. This is an amazing sight.
"There is something for everyone on this hike. Firstly, you drive up a winding road to a small car park (there are toilets at the top). The first part of the walk is on a path to view the glacier and lake, which are fantastic. This doesn't take very long. You can either go back to your car, or for the more adventurous, you can hike up the side of the mountain to a couple of different views. The lower and easier point offers a great view of the glacier, the second is higher and involves a walk over reasonably steep and compacted scree. You can miss the top part if it's too much and do a lower loop. To do everything takes about 3 hours at a reasonable fitness level. There are lots of animals to see as well as the landscape. It can get cold at the top and so take sensible clothing and supplies."
This is a must go place. we went there twice when we stayed in Jasper. From photos you can't not see how huge and beautiful it is. The road is a little bit narrow and I don't think a RV can go.
"The hike is quite challenging, a little steep towards the end. The views are totally worth the hike! From the top you have an incredible view of the glacier, lake and surrounding mountains. We also saw a lot of wildlife on the trail including marmots and pikas. Would definitely recommend if you're visiting Jasper."
"The trail looked rather intimidating when I first saw it, with distant hikers looking so small and far away. It's a bit challenging at that altitude, but it's a wide enough trail where you can stop and let others pass if you need to take a rest. There were all age groups on the trail, from toddlers to elderly. While the trail elevates, the terrain is flat and easy to walk on. It didn't take as long as I thought it would to get to the end. Once there, I could see both 'wings' of Angel Glacier, and could see the ice chunks around Cavell Pond, previously not visible from the starting point. To my right, I could see the valley and surrounding mountains with blue water in the distance. Truly wondrous views all around, making this a most rewarding hike and one of the top attractions in Jasper!"
"This place is incredible! You get everything you want from a hike here. You have a very nice trail that is also pretty challenging, but you can also make it a short trip so it's not difficult. And the best part is that either way you have an amazing view of Mount Edith Cavell, the glaciers, and the pond.There is also a good amount of wildlife along the trail. We saw marmots, squirrels, and pikas up very close. An unexpectedly cool part was hearing what you think is thunder, but turns out to be the glacier cracking and shifting. Overall, an awesome hike with great views!"
I would highly recommend this hike to anyone because you can do a little or a lot and have it be hugely rewarding.The views of the glacier and pond are amazing about 10 minutes in but just keep getting better as you climb. This hike does get challenging and expect snow on the ground by the time your get half way to the top (we were there labour day weekend). The parking lot of pretty busy but the hike is long enough and has a few different routes so it didn't seem as busy. Be prepared for all types of weather.
"Start off from the parking lot and walk towards the glacier lake. I agree with other reviews to keep hiking up but if you're not the hiking type, the short trail towards the glacier lake is very easy to do with some great views. On Strava, my hike was 5.1 miles with 2,200 feet elevation gain. There is a sign warning of bears, so bring bear spray if this is a concern. They recommend hiking in a group. I got here towards the end of the day around 6:30pm and was rewarded with having the trail pretty much to myself. There were a couple other groups near the bottom but when I got towards the top, it was eerily peaceful (I felt like I was all alone on this mountain top.)Wear layers as it gets pretty windy above the tree line. It actually started raining pretty hard when I got past the fork in the trail and was walking towards one of the two peaks. Walking poles will be helpful as you climb higher; some of the sections get pretty steep and you'll definitely feel it in your calves but the views are worth it!"
We hiked to the ridge line of the trail. You don't have to go this high to see the glacier if you are not up to it. We wanted to keep going and going to the ridge is not for everybody especially if out of shape or not prepared with proper clothing and footwear. Views are amazing.
This is a great hike with views of the angel glacier and the pond beneath filled with little ice bergs. The path of the glaciers walk wasn't too challenging for our six year old and we were paid off with great views and an enjoyable walk.
"The Cavell Meadows trail is a most wonderful trail. The views of Mt. Edith Cavell, Angel glacier, and the Cavell pond (with its small icebergs) are spectacular. At the summit is a great place to have a picnic lunch. It is a moderate level of difficulty. Most visitors only do the easy Path of the Glacier trail which provides nice views of the glacier and pond, but not as good as from the Meadows trail."
"The hike itself is great: glaciers, a lake, mountain meadows and beautiful vistas. Make sure to climb to the upper levels for beautiful open views (and a better look at the glacier). The road there is also interesting and has many nice views."
"In prior reviews/info on the trail it sounded like the road was full of pot-holes but the road was paved all the way and there was only a very small section that was not paved. We did the hike in 2 hours and it was enjoyable... it is fun to climb the higher sections of the trail to get a different view... the glacier is great but it takes up about half the view early in the hike and after an hour we wanted to see more of the surrounding mountains, which the hike gave us that opportunity. Definitely a great little hike."
"Great drive getting to the top of the mountain!! Before telling you more, my wife and I loved the drive up to the top. We seen two mother black bears and babies on the way up!!! What a treat this was for us. You know when there are wild animals, everybody stops along the road to see them. The drive is breath taking to the top. At the top of the mountain you can hike up to Angel's Glacier, which was a bit tough on me. (Being a senior). Take lots of water and enjoy the views. The elevation is up around 11,000 feet.Be aware of the attitude if you have problems with that."
"This is a short hike, mostly paved and uphill. You get a very close view of the glacier and the water below. We were here around 5 pm and it was still fairly busy, but there was parking available."
"What a great spot. You have to walk at least this trail to get a good view, but it's a fairly easy and mostly paved trail. If you made it the parking lot you have to at least do this walk. You can see the glacier and the lake from the end of the lower trail. If you're lucky like we were you'll hear part of the glacier break off and fall below sounds like thunder through the valley, hopefully not too big of a piece.You have the option to keep hiking up the meadows trail, but this was difficult and the views really weren't that much better than from the lower platform area. Enjoy! Do note the other reviews about parking...there is a lot when you get to the end of the road make a firm left and keep going it's there. Won't seem like it, but it is!"
"It's a relatively easy hike from the car. The hardest part will be finding where to park the car. But once you get to the base of the mountain, you get to see the glacier melting into a waterfall flowing down the side of the mountain. Is worth the time. Takes about an hour."
Interesting hike with easy access to the Angel glacier bringing you close to the glacier though you can't touch it or walk on it. There are different trails but the main trail is only about two miles going out and back.
"The view from the end of this trail is spectacular. You can see Mount Edith Cavell, Cavell pond and the Angel glacier all at once, it's incredible. It is just a short and easy walk (~ 15 - 20 min) from the parking lot at Mount Edith Cavell. We heard that the Cavell Meadows trail was also beautiful but had a bear warning so we did this shorter trail instead. It is easy to get to Mount Edith Cavell from Jasper by car but the last 15 km or so are through a narrow winding mountain road with lots of animals (mainly squirrels) crossing the road so it is important to drive carefully."
"An easy was to get close to a massive mountain with beautiful surroundings. You must have a car though. You drive most of in on well serviced quality roads, and walk last 30-45mins. Really lovely and quick."
"We had a wonderful experience hiking the Mt. Edith Cavell meadows trail - it was probably our favorite hike in Jasper and Banff.. The trail to the overlook at the lake is nice, but the trail up into the meadows is much better. The entire trail is beautiful and includes great views of the Cavell Glacier and particularly the Angel Glacier. As many of the reviews say, it pays to get their early. We got to the parking lot before 9:00 and found easy parking, but most importantly there is much less traffic on the trail at that time. We took our time and enjoyed the views and spent right at 4 hours on the trail."
"After a winding 14 km drive, you can take the moderately difficult trails (or the shorter hike to the pond) through the forest up to the meadows and then above to the bare summit, with great up-close mountain and glacier views along the way. Best to visit early or later as usual for the crowds."
"Mount Edith Cavell was stunning. The trail up to the first (and main) look-out is easy and very short (about 0.5km). The look-out gives you wonderful views of the ""ghost glacier"" and Cavell glacier, as well as Cavell pond, which is GORGEOUS and has chunks of ice floating in it. There are a couple of informative signs as well. However, a few years ago, one of the paths washed out, so you are unfortunately unable to get closer to the pond. There is however a much longer hike (a full day-trip) that leads to Cavell Meadows. However, for us, the short trail to the look-out was enough. One negative aspect was the lack of signage indicating the road up to the trail (long and winding, about 14km), and the parking at the trail is very poorly marked, and needs to be more plentiful!"
"We started this hike at around 4:00pm on a long summer day and went on up into the meadows to do the full loop up on the ridge. The higher we went, the fewer the people, and the meadows were gorgeous with wildflowers, patches of snow, and stunning close up views of Mt Edith Cavell and the glacier. Great variety in a short distance with ice, woods, meadows, and varied views. It is a steep climb at times up into the meadows but very worthwhile to see the glacier from a higher vantage point. One of my favorite hikes in our two weeks in the Rockies."
"We took the drive out to the trail head in the evening and didn't feel we had time to do the hike(nor did we want to drive down the twisting road in the dark!). As you drive up the road, you may feel like you're never going to get there but patience is rewarded. Just the views at the top of the road are worth it."
"Right in the heart of the mountains! This was magnificent ! Drive the 20 km windy road up to the main parking lot which was super busy and the path leading to Ghost Glacier is a easy 0.4 km walk uphill that is paved . ( ok for walker or wheelchair but all uphill for the pusher)The scenery is some of the best in Jasper area and I highly recommend it!!There are trails in this area that are NO DOGS and we had our dog so we omitted them . There are bear warnings for a few of the back trails also.The lake , glaciers, creek and views were so stunning that's words cannot explain."
This area is very popular. Most people take a short hike along the glacial moraine to the foot of the glacier and then head back to their cars. If you have the time extend your stay with a hike to the Edith Cavel meadows (another 2.5 km) and to the ridge beyond. The alpine meadow is spectacular and the ridge allows a view Angel Glacier from above. Access depends on the weather; no visits if the meadow is still covered in snow. Sturdy footwear is recommended past the meadow as the trail covers areas of scree. This is also bear country! There are no dogs allowed on the trail to the meadow.
"A fairly easy hike gets you to the foot of Angel Glacier, and a short hike down to the glacial lake below it (at your own risk....there are signs that mark it as a flash flood area and the park signs ask that you not to pass beyond the viewing point) take you right up to the icebergs that calved off the glacier. We watched and heard the power of a few avalanches at the top of the glacier. Very cool."
The first walk up from the parking lot to the viewing point is fairly easy. Unless you are more physical and have a pack of water I wouldn't recommend going further. It does get more difficult but the views are amazing. The trail is wide and easy to follow.
"The glacier and lake of mount canvell is one of the biggest tourist attractions in the jasper national park. At certain times its almost impossible to get a parkinglot (weve been there at a weekday, not the weekend, still growded). There are tons of tourists at the first kilometer of the trail. Ill come back to that later. After the first viewpoints, tourists get fewer and fewer. After 1,5km, the trail opens up over the treeline and beautifull meadows of wildflowers can be seen. Further up, the vegetation totally vanishes as the trail gets more ""rocky"". The last part is fairly steep but the hiker gets rewarded with an amazing view. Along the way, marmots and chipmunks can be seen all over the place, as well as birds and sometimes even grizzlies. The animals are very used to people and chipmunks come as close as ones feet. You can see how the masses of tourists affect the flora and fauna of the trail (and all the national park) . Animals lose their natural fear of humans (probably because people feed them), plants get stomped down from people leaving the trail, you can find leftovers like plastic bags etc laying around. While the trail gets beautiful and rewarding at the top, the bottom part is ugly and I felt ashamed of being part of tje whole problem."
Great scenic drive up Mount Edith. Even saw a mama bear and cub! I'm surprised the crazy tourists didnt get hurt... Everyone was chasing bears for photos! A very stupid thing to do. When bears get used to seeing people it causes great problems fir nearby towns! Nice trail up to the bottom of the glacier - about 45 min if you take your time for photos. I think anyone could manage it if you take your time. Also crazy tourists were going in 'danger' areas. No wonder there are so many 'accidents'. A beautiful 'free' hike with breathtaking views! There were signs posted when i was there about recent bear sightings on the trail (july 14th) so be cautious. Don't feed wildlife.
"My favorite hike in Jasper. Start with a quick walk up to Angel glacier. Climb the moraine, take some pictures, then start walking up, and up, and up. We came to a sign and fork in the road saying there is a steep path or a gentle path to the top. We went the steep way, and it was steep. There are great views of the glacier and mountains behind you though. Don't forget to turn around to enjoy them, because clouds can roll in quickly! By the time we made it to the top, we were in the middle of a sleet storm. We didn't hang out long and quickly made our way back down (which always seems much quicker). Make a day of it and go to both viewpoints. Make sure you pack extra layers, there was at least 30 degree F difference between the top and bottom."
"Put this stop on your list when visiting Jasper. We even saw a bear on the road heading to the site!There was ample parking despite the fact we arrived around noon. There is a short trail to view the glacier and pond, which should not be missed. We also hiked the meadows trail up to the second view point. The trail is steep, but we took breaks and were rewarded with some amazing views. The bugs were obnoxious, so we were very thankful that we wore jackets and pants along with ample bug spray. If you are prepared, there will be no issues."
"We drove up to the Mount Edith Cavell glacier loop trail late in the afternoon, which turned out to be a great time to go. There wasn't much of a crowd and the afternoon light was hitting the mountain just so. We even saw a grizzly bear only about 12 feet from our car along the road! Amazing. We were able to stop to take photos of it for quite a few minutes. The hike up to the lookout is an uphill climb, but not impossible and pretty short. We admired the beautiful scenery for probably about 30 minutes and even saw two avalanches! The sound they make is so impressive, but eerie. The only downside was that my husband was bit on the head twice by deer flies which seemed to really like him. I didn't have a problem with them. Too sour, I guess......"
"Mount Edith Cavell is an impressive mountain. It's about 15km up a windy mountain road but a fun drive. Short somewhat steep short trail to the glacier and lake viewpoint. Absolutely beautiful. :) The trail down to the lake (past the viewpoint) is closed due to an avalanche that occurred previously but people disregarded the the closure. If you're reading this, obey the closure and view it from the viewpoint. Still amazing and safe. Locals were telling me that ice frequently falls there and could easily hurt someone if you go on the closed trail."
"If you enjoy spectacular scenery and hiking, do not miss this hike. You will see amazing scenery everywhere you look! You have several hiking options and can do a longer or shorter hike. Good footwear is required and expect changes od weather.. wear layers!"
"Beautiful hike past glacier lake and angel glacier. We did the whole trail up to the 3rd lookout. Very wet, muddy, uphill but worth it! We had lunch at the top and enjoyed the view. Only thing I would recommend is get on the trail early as it can get busy."
"Visited this from Jasper on way back to Banff. It's on a back road and it's a windy tight drive to the Trail. On the way we saw black bear and grizzly. It's high altitude at beginning of trail bug offers breathtaking views. Lots of information provided and the pond at end of,walk up the steep short walk is amazing . Ice flotsam almost icebergs that have dropped into the pond just like in the Arctic? Well worth a visit and quite an amazing place."
We walked the Mt Edith Cavell trail this morning. After the walk up...some people may need to take stops...we saw some amazing scenery even witnessed come calving. Well worth the walk and a must do activity. We even saw a bear on the drive out from Jasper.
"From the car park at the end of the road up to the mountain, the walk to the glacier is easy and pleasant, with lovely floral alpine vegetation along the path, and the view from the end of the path quite stunning. The Angel Glacier appears menacing over the small icy blue glacier lake. A worthwhile detour."
"We hiked up past the ""easy"" walk and on up towards Cavell Meadows. I also went down into the basin below Angel Glacier. (officially closed area). It was an effort -- we're senior citizens and the altitude makes a difference, but we had a great time. The area is very active geologically -- in 2003 a huge chunk of the angel's ""body"" fell off causing mass reconfiguration of the valley below. We saw a waterfall under Angel Glacier, plus normal spring ""avalanches"" (they were small but plentiful) and one rock slide, all the the space of an hour or two. On the trail above the glaciers, the wildflowers were just starting to come in. Delightful! So were the mosquitos. Not delightful!"
"The Mount Edith Cavell Trail is a must do when in Jasper.The scenic drive up to the carpark where the trail leaves from is beautiful.The trail is quiet steep so you must be fit and wear good hiking boots and clothing.It is well worth the treck for the magnificent scenery of hanging glaciers, mountains including the mighty North Face, blue lakes and wild life. We saw huge grizzly bears 3 times, amazing.Definitely a highlight an experience we will never forget."
"We have climbed up the trail to see Angel Glacier on many trips to Jasper, but only last July did we realize that there was a more extensive trail that climbed higher up with a different view of the glacier. My wife and I left my 89 year old dad back at the parking lot & did the entire trail. The only downside, TAKE MOSQUITO REPELLENT! I don't know how long this glacier will actually look like an angel with outstretched wings as it seems to be receding. One of my favorite pastimes while on this trail is to watch the numerous avalanches on Mt. Edith Cavell. It is a truly spectacular sight!"
"This was a great site to visit, but know that the uphill walk, although the path is paved, may be quite taxing. If you're not in tip-top shape, plan to stop, rest, and enjoy the scenery several times."
Driving up to the mountain you will see two different paths. One designated one and the other made my climbers and hikers. We choose to take the mountain path where the climbers were coming from. It is a steep climb and the rocks are very crumbly and soft. Be very careful and maintain contact with surface when in doubt. The view from up here is amazing ! About 10min all the way up and you can view the glacier and all the water. Looking back the way you came you have a view of another lake of blue water (beautiful scene)It's a breathtaking view you cannot get from the main trail. Definitely recommended but it can be a little dangerous as it is very high and steep up in the mountain. Have fun and be safe.
"I reccommend going outside of tourist hours, I climbed up at 4am to watch and photograph the sunrise, which didn't really eventuate unfortunately due to heavy cloud cover.I will be back, it was really a super experience with nobody else in sight and flakes of snow falling."
"Walking trails are in good shape up to the glacier and is a great place to start your hiking experience if you are a first time visitor and want to get your legs ready for further climbs. It is beautiful scenery, the glaciers are unique and you can get some wonderful photos.Definitely worth a visit."
"Park in the lot at the end of the road and walk up the trail. Benches to sit and enjoy the view. Definitely go to the first viewing point to see the glacier with the lake below.
Incredible"
Exciting trip during the Fall season...full of thrills...the glacier is awesome and drive safely during rain
"We went in late July to Jasper. Thought I had reviewed this already, but I guess not. It was kind of a rainy, chilly weekend, but that seemed to work in our favor. We made the long windy trip up to Mount Edith Cavell and were surprised to find that EVERYTHING had changed since we were there last. Of course they had the big mud slide a few years ago. It looks like they just left the upper road washed out, and instead built a short hiking trail up to the viewpoint. There are signs all over the place warning about the danger of flash flooding now. I wonder why? ;-)It was a pretty good uphill hike to get to the viewpoint. The view was really nice and we thought we had done what there was to do. On the way there we had noticed a sign that indicated an ""upper trail"". We decided to give that a try, thinking that it was another way back to the car. WRONG!The upper trail wound its way to a higher elevation, then went along the side of the mountain to another lookout point of the glacier. We noticed right away that this was a superior trail for observing nature. We started to see more wild flowers, more birds, and even a few chipmunks. As we continued on our way we started to see pikas, and our kids were following them around at a distance snapping away with their cameras. And finally we started to see several hoary marmots! If you have never seen these guys, they are the coolest little rodent creature you ever want to see!After a pretty good hike we came to the new lookout and the view was really nice. The trail continued on for several more kilometers, but it was getting late and we had to be getting back. But this was a memorable day for us in the Canadian Rockies! We are so happy we went."
"Nice, well-maintained trail, large parking lot, nice view of Angel Glacier, the ice lagoon below, and Mt Cavell. Leads up through spruce forests to alpine meadows. Can be muddy after rain."
The road to the glacier is a series of switchbacks. Just take it easy and you will get there. The climb to the lookout is manageable by most and is worth it. Not sure if you are legally allowed to go down to the surface of the lake at the foot of the glacier but everybody was doing it. We saw two small avalanches while there and one could see how a large one could result in a tsunami in the lake! The so-called angel glacier is quite awesome at that close range. Entrance is covered by the National Parks pass.
"I visited the area probably forty years ago, hasn't changed much around the attraction. Although the road is only about 18 km, it is quite narrow and windy and will take more than 30 min to get there. We arrived on a cold and rainy day so we did not spend too much time hiking but will definitely go back for a longer hike."
"First of all this road has lot of blind curves so take your time getting to Edith Cavell will be there when you arrive.There is nice Information Kiosk in the parking area and recommend to read it. If you hike long distance on the trail remember the weather changes quickly in this high altitude.There is nice area where you can get good photo and paved trail close to the parking lot, so for those on schedule you still can enjoy a viewpoint for Angel Glacier which is beautifully lit by the morning sun.As always arrive early and enjoy the serenity!"
what a delightful exhilarating hike - even for those over 70 - and lovely close views of two glaciers. I would have missed it but for providence and I am so glad I saw it. would go again and hope the sun shone on the magnificent deep blue inside the glaciers.
Quite a long slow drive up from highway 93 just south of Jasper. Well worth the drive. Car park area quite small but we managed to find a slot. Pleasant walk up to close to end of one of the glaciers. Good view of the Angel Glacier. Well worth the lovely scenery
"Lutz, our guide was wonderful and so informative about the area and the history.
Highly recommend going in Autumn to get the most amazing colours combined with a little snow!"
Beautiful drive to Mt Edith Cavell and then two miles hike (RT). Recommended for all age and what you see is amazing!!. Beautiful glacier and lake .
One of the most gorgeous trails ever visited in life. Absolutely stunning and beautiful. Must visit. 2 hours. Google the history behind the name of this mountain. Nice to put things in perspective.
"Heeding the advice of other TA contributors, we arrived early to obtain a parking space. The paved path up the hill stops at the viewpoint for Angel Glacier which is beautifully lit by the morning sun. The path to the meadow continues on up the hill. We did not walk all the way to the meadow, but we did walk to the third or fourth switchback for a higher view. It was a great way to spend an hour. I'd recommend the further walk to those with the stamina, ability, and time."
"We intended to hike the trail to view glacier field but just as we started out, other hikers came running down the trail saying there was a grizzly coming toward us at a fast pace. We stayed in the parking lot until we saw the bear ambling away but these flatlanders decided to find another trail."
"I have visited Mt Edith Cavell and Angel Glacier three times during the last 4 years and in three different seasons. It has been accessible in April and October – for sure in July as well. And it has been worth seeing it in all seasons.There was a major flood recently – this is why the lower trail to the foot of the glacier is not accessible any more, but the upper one is still worth seeing.Should you ask yourself whether or not the Cavell Meadows trail should be done (most probably just possible during summer), I can just say: If your are interested in nature, most of the trails in Jasper Nationalpark are worth seeing, so if you have the time: Hike that trail!If you are looking for a good spot to take pictures you should definitely take it, because it takes you further up which enhances your chances of getting a picture with some nice reflections in the lake below the glacier."
"This is one of the most spectacular scenery destinations possible from Jasper, getting close up to the Mt. Edith glaciers and glacial lake. There is an uphill Tarmac trail from the car park through to the viewing area, so the effort is well worthwhile. The more energetic can proceed further uphill through the morraine on a mountain path for even more spectacular views of this iconic mountain. Not to be missed."
"The car park at the end is busy so it might be better to go earlier or later in the day. There is a short but steep walk to the Ice Lake and view of Angel Glacier. Take it slowly if you're unfit like me and it's well worth it. Don't be put off by people who appear right on the top of the hill, they've started on another part of the trail over the meadow which my husband did part of. The ice lake is stunning and occasionally you might hear the ice in the glaciers cracking. I took a fork in the trail down and sat on benches where a friendly ground squirrel sat with me. Very beautiful"
"along the trail goes an energetic river,as you walk, you'll see a light blue lake.As you get ups hill,the beauty of the falls,glacier,and lake will shock you.the roar of the ice on the glacier sounds like thunder as it crashes down,the sight is such a beauty"
"What can I say other than FANTASTIC, You do not have to know anything at all about geology, glaciers, cirques etc to be totally awed by this magnificent natural wonder.Follow Route 93 from Jasper (it's the Icefields Parkway to Banff so you cannot miss it) and look for the large sign on the right for ""Mount Edith Cavell"". The 16km road up to the carpark is narrow with some tricky bends that require you to slow to 20kmh but it is easily travelled. BEWARE : there is no shoulder along most of his route and the drop off the tarmac, in places, is several inches! Drive with care and you will have no problems.At the top of the road, you will come a very short (50m) currently unsealed, section of flood evacuation area and the sealed car park and toilets are just around the corner.The trail up,to the viewing point is about 700m in length, brilliantly sealed all the way and relatively steep but not overly so. Taking it easy, any one should be able to stroll up and, when you get to the top .... THE VIEWS OF ANGEL GLACIER, THE GLACIER FACE AND LAKE, THE MOUNTAIN AND VALLEY ARE MAGNIFICENT ... EVEN ON A RAINY DAY SO DO NOT LET THE WEATHER DETER YOU,All the Jasper residents that I spoke with rated this as their #1 local attraction, they are smart folks, these :)"
Strenuous hike for two 30 somethings in good shape. We went all the way to all three viewpoints. Arrive early and take your time. The views all the way up are awesome. Not a lot of other hikers until we were on our way down (11ish). Awesome to see the glacier calving as well.
"Excellent hike to the top. I'd call it strenuous. We did several other hikes that were much longer and had more elevation gain but this one just felt tougher. Very steep climb, especially at end where you're climbing pretty straight up (doesn't really switch back) up loose rocks. Very rewarding. Great views. Easy to find trail, not far from jasper."
"Jaw dropping beauty. The power of nature on display here is humbling. The meadows are teeming with assorted gorgeous flowers. The walk is sufficiently taxing to warm you up, but not strenuous. The bottom of the trail is busy, but most people head for the viewing platform over the lake. Far fewer head-up to the summit, which is well worth the effort. The whole thing is just stunning."
Amazing views. You can actually see the chunks of ice that broke off from the glacier floating in the lake. The trail was a bit hard for me but seemed fine for everyone else!
"WE only drove in the area. Had we known how lovely it was, we probably would have taken more time to explore. It was beautiful."
"Hiked the MEC trail a few times and have loved it both times. Beautiful views of the glacier and amazing wildlife. I have had the chance to see a bear, ptarmigans, pikas and marmots on the trail."
"What an awesome place, amazing views of calving glaciers in pristine mountain setting. Good hikes with excellent vantage points. Crazy drive up on beautifully paved twisty mountain road. Parking lot can get full so go early in morning or later in afternoon to avoid crowds."
"Some of the most incredible views in Jasper National Park. Mount Edith Cavell has glaciers on it and a glacial lake in front of it. Two popular paths are the Path of the Glacier Trail which is a 0.8 km trial, and Cavell Meadows Trail which is a few kms depending on the paths you take. Both are worth taking, but the Path of the Glacier Trail is shorter, easier, and has as good of a view. If you have the time though, Cavell Meadows Trail does offer some incredible views and you have a much greater chance of seeing wildlife as wildlife isn't really present on the Glacial Trail."
A beautiful day hike that's well worth the time and drive to see. We enjoyed the chance to get up close to glacier ice and it makes for some pretty memorable pictures. It's also incredible to watch and hear/see the glacier calve right in front of you.
"On our way to the Columbia Icefield we took a detour to see Mount Edith Cavell up close. It was a bit cloudy, but that added to the charm as we were basically 'in the clouds' the whole time, it made it such a special surreal experience. We did not have time to do the whole 45 minute loop trail. We stuck to the first little area up the stairs before you actually start the trail to get some pictures and learn a little bit more about the area. Be forewarned! The drive up is narrow and extremely windy. It took us about 40 minutes to get up, but it's totally worth it!"
"Just got back from Jasper, and we only had time for one hike so chose the Cavell Meadows hike. Thoroughly impressive although it was frowned upon to actually walk down to the glacier. The first part of the hike takes you to a close viewpoint of ghost and angel glacier. That is about a 1.5km loop, very simple climb. The rest of the hike takes you above the glacier to a ridge peak, where you climb through alpine meadows and have beyond amazing views of the glaciers from almost every step. The glacier will grown and crack as you climb and this in itself is awe inspiring. You should be able to do the climb up and down in 3 hrs, but we took our time and did it at a snails pace in 4 hrs. A perfect half day climb. Make sure to bring rain gear and some cold weather gear as it can get rainy and cold at the top. And try to get at the parking lot by 9am. By 1 pm when we left, it was in an overflow situation, although most of the crown does not do the big hike to the top. Would completely recommend doing this hike if you only had one or two days in Jasper."
"Beautiful place. You can walk right up to the glacial lake and to where the glacier splits along its valley. Mesmerising views really. Not a difficult hike at all, not especially long. Close to Jasper, maybe 20 mins by car."
"I researched walks before our trip as we wanted something moderate but scenic. This fitted the bill! It was cold starting, morning in July was a bit chilly but definitely a moderate manageable walk for those used to hill walking. The start of the walk is scenic up to the Angel glacier/pond. I was thrilled to see mini ice-bergs floating in the lake. Then a steady climb along a few switchbacks up to the meadow. The guide books describe meadows of wild flowers and I have to say I was a bit sceptical, however they weren't wrong. We walked through a meadow of amazing flowers with views of the mountains and a glacier! The most amazing part was at the first view point where there were around 20 people and in the distance a real life Grizzly. We were able to take photos at a distance and see him in his natural environment, catching a poor Marmot for lunch and then rooting around for berries! A once in a lifetime moment i think! We also saw Hoary Marmots on the way down too. Amazing walk, loved it!! I would say, get there earlyish, we arrived at 10am and got the last parking space."
"We did this first thing in the morning. First car in the lot. Went all the way up to the top. Stunning views, great scenery. Do the last bit even though it is very steep and loose rocks on the trail. Some snow still on the trail in spots. Its about a 9 mile winding road to the parking lot but our 21 foot rental camper van made it no problems. A great hike! When we finished, the lot was overflowing with cars."
"We stumbled on this trail when in Jasper. We were not disappointed at all, what a perfect hike, easy and at the end the reward of seeing a glacier up close and personal. If you are going to pick a short hike in Jasper I highly recommend this one."
"This is the trail any hiker dreams of. It's moderate, not terribly long, and includes unique views of so many amazing attractions such as a famous North Face climbing mountain, a huge glacier, several glacier water falls, a glacier lake with ice walls, and ice in the turquoise water, alpine meadows with numerous colorful flowers, and the sky that constantly changes its shades and clouds, and even rain drops while the sun is shining brightly. All in one. Number one in my hiking book."
"This is my favourite place in all of Jasper National Park. The drive up is a 15 minute winding mountain road off of the IceFields Parkway. Edith Cavell acts as the amazing backdrop along the road. The hike from the parking lot is a short uphill hike along a well paved path. I have been to Edith Cavell 4 or 5 times now and I have also witnessed the changes that have taken place. Angel Glacier is still as impressive as always, creating an amazing waterfall from the ice melt. After a large portion of Ghost Glacier fell into the lake beneath the face of the mountain, access down to the lake and foot of the glacier is no longer allowed. The views of the glaciers and mountain are still incredible however. You still can get quite close and there are many signs with information about the area."
"The drive up to the Edith a Cavell trail is windy and fairly long. The path to the. Viewing area of the pond is an easy, short and uphill walk. The view of the glacier was good, but I personally liked the reflections of the striations in the ice 'bank' on the far side of the pond in the pond. We did not hike the long trail because of time constraints."
"Mountains, Glaciers, Streams. What's not to like. Parking lot has loos. Glacier trail is smooth walking with little effort required."
"I had not been up to Mount Edith Cavell for for 23 years and was a little puzzled when we first got to the top. I was totally disoriented until we up closer to the Cavell Pond and the view of the glaciers.What had changed was that in 2012 there was major flood in 2012 when a large portion of the glacier fell into the lake and caused a flash flood.When you look at the information centres, it is amazing to see how much ice fell and the impact this had on the overall layout. Very interesting."
We did the hike and one of my favorite pictures was when we came across Cavell Lake. The colors are unreal. It is absolutely amazing that we have such beauty here in Canada. I loved this trip and these pictures are just not enough! Take some time to enjoy the trail and breathe in the fresh mountain air xx
"beautiful (a REAL mountain road) drive up to the parking lot, beautiful vista--mountains, glacier, lake, forests. A short hike gets you a better view, and if you have more energy there are more manageable options. The walk to view the lake is short, but you can spend more time hiking farther up."
"Visitors to Mount Edith Cavell are prone to skip the trail as they get stunned with the road and its hairpins and in the end the breathtaking view of the mountain, but skipping this trail is not a good idea. It is very rewarding with nice scenery. It is a medium effort trail although it is easy in its early stages."
"We did not know this hike existed and were very pleasantly surprised to find it at the top of the marmot basin mountain road. We originally took the road to look for animals around sunset, but saw this beautiful trail and had time to fit in the lower path to the lake before it became too dark. We went back in the morning to hike the Cavell Meadows trail to the summit. No dogs were allowed to protect the Caribou habitat. Awesome hike. Unforgettable views, challenging, but reasonable elevation gains. Marmots to greet you (and your snack) near the top. Slippery shale at the very top. Quite a popular trail with lots of traffic even though it was a bit steep. Glacier, lake and mountain views are spectacular and worthy of this hike. Lower and upper trails provide opportunities for people with a wide range of fitness levels."
"This isn't a super-easy hike because of the length of it. If you're trying to summit, then it's probably a 3-hour walk at a brisk pace with stops for pictures. The walk back is way easier. We almost made it to the top; the only reason we weren't able to get there is because it's pretty cold up there. A simple windbreaker and shorts that kept you comfortable down below ain't gonna cut it on the top because of the high winds and lower temperatures. So get a backpack and stuff a sweater and a hat in there to layer up as you approach the summit. We saw people fully bundled up for the hike. I'd say it's a pretty safe hike, no dangerous cliffs or anything. The trail is well-laid and well-marked, so no way to get lost. It just feels endless as you ascend. Very worth the adventure. Unlike the countless waterfalls and lakes, you'll definitely remember this hike vividly."
"The trails here suit all tastes, from the relatively easy to the ones that go much higher. We were lucky enough to be able to take the time to explore some of the higher trails. I can recommend that you do this if you have the time and the energy ( and the weather). It is really worthwhile making the extra effort for the views you get."
"We only hiked the short loop to view the angel glacier and it was a great walk. We went there in September early morning, and the sun had not risen up high enough, so most of the trail was still in the shade, making it colder than it was supposed to be (so be prepared). I read many comments here about the road conditions, and almost decided not to visit. Don't let those fool you, as I found the road to not be scary at all (though we went in the summer), and in fact very scenic. Before our trip, we searched for Mount Edith and found some beautiful pictures of the mountain with a reflection in the water. You won't see that on the trail. On your way out not too long after the parking lot, look for a sign that indicates a Tonquin Valley loop on your left side. You can park the car and walk about 5-10 minutes down to a stream that flows off from Lake Cavell and you will get an amazing view of the mountain (see my picture). We were lucky to find this out by chance."
"We had not planned to do this hike but it was recommended to us by the B&B owner where we stayed and it turned out to be one of the highlights of our stay. The 14km winding road leading to the car parking area was an experience in itself. You have to take it fairly slow which gives you a chance to take in the beautiful views.Once we'd arrived, we did the longer trail up to Cavell meadows which took us about 4½ hours return with the usual stops for sightseeing and loads of photos !! There are some fairly steep parts on this trail but it's worth the effort if you can make it. The views are just stunning. As you get further up, the views of Angel Glacier, Cavell Glacier and Cavell Pond just get better and better. We also came across wildlife such as marmots and ground squirrels.It's definitely a hike I would recommend."
This was the highlight of our visit to Jasper National Park. Walked the trail to the meadows (well worth the hike) on a sunny day in September and the views of the Angel glacier and surrounding mountains were stunning. The colour changes on the rock faces were breathtaking.....this is just the most beautiful unspoilt place ever. Quite a few people only walk as far as the rock ledge facing the glacier lake but carry on the trail past this and you practically have the mountain to yourself :-) If you get the chance to go this place is a must visit....enjoy!
"We were bound and determined to complete a hike while staying in Jasper. We were unfortunate to get hit with an early September snow storm while there. The snow on the ground make the hiking a bit more challenging & the low cloud cover and fog definitely obscured our views, but nonetheless, the hike was breathtaking!! The smell of fresh pine the entire time was wonderful!! There was literally NO ONE else out hiking that day and you could hear the glaciers calving and and cracking--was awesome. It took us about 2.5 hrs to hike. Was uphill quite a ways, which was fine, even for us flatlanders that are not used to higher altitudes, however, coming down was a bit more challenging with the snow and ice!! We had to be careful as we did not want to break any bones while on vacation!! The views of the angel glacier were wonderful, even with the fog hovering over it. We definitely enjoyed our peaceful hike."
"With the rain subsiding, we went on this hike, started off as cloudy and then when the sun broke thru, the mountains and glacier were gorgeous, the colors were breathtaking. As we continued our hike, we were pelted by hail, did not last long and when it was over, another burst of sunshine with the rainbow hanging over the mountain, just spectacular. Dress for the changing weather and enjoy the beauty of Mount Edith Cavell Trail."
"This is probably the highlight of our Jasper stay. The long and twisty drive from 93A ends at the stunning Mount Edith Cavell and the Angel glacier. The hike is definitely doable, though steep in parts, providing absolutely amazing views of the glacier and surrounding valley. When we were there small parts of the glacier were breaking off and the sounds of thunder reverberated through the valley floor. Watch out for the chipmunks, they a pretty aggressive and definitely not scared of people."
"One of the most beautiful place I've ever seen! Trail is very easy in the beginning, so you can take even toddlers with you:) Then it gets more difficult, but doable. Parking may be limited. Try to get there before 10 a.m. Enjoy!"
"We spent a few days in Jasper National Park and went by the tips we received from Bob, our host at Wyndspwept B&B (reviewed by me separately and highly recommended for Jasper visits!!).As part of our visit, we did the Mount Edith Cavell Trail.The hike is a little uphill but is no biggie. If it seems difficult, do it slowly, but don't give up!!At the end of the short hike you are rewarded with awesome views of the Angel Glacier, the waterfalls below and the Cavell Pond, with its beautiful turquoise color and pieces of broken glacier floating about.If you have some time, settle down and you are sure to hear some cracking sounds and even view a piece of the glacier break away and fall into the pond.Parking might be a problem, but if you wait for a few minutes, someone will be leaving......Truly a magnificent spot!!! Don't Miss It!!!"
Like another reviewer we too had trouble finding the actual road and ended up at Athabasca Falls! It turned out to be the road right near the caravan dropoff point. I'm not that fit and huffed a bit to get up short trail but it was so worth it. If you stay long enough you can hear slight cracking sounds in either the glacier or from rocks crashing down. I saw one drop into the lake reminding me of New Zealand trip. AWESOME!
This is off highway 93 A. The road is like a regular paved road but you go slow due to lots of curves and bends. Parking may be limited but do try to go up to the parking lot before deciding to park on the road.The hike up to the view point is about 1/2 mile and it is paved..that in my books is easy. And I am not referring about the longer hike to the meadows.We saw a lot of folks go down to the glacial pond which had lots of mini ice bergs floating. that hike is about 10 mins but you have to make your way through rocks and pebbles.
We had some difficulty finding the road which was much better than advertised. While narrow and winding it was in very good shape. The payoff is the magnificent view of the Angel glacier and glacial lake that is formed by its waterfall of melting ice. The hike is short but steep. It is a bit cool due to the ice and snow so take a jacket. The area is a good lesson in the effects of glaciers on the land. One of my favorite things to do in the Jasper area. Get there early as the lot fills up fast.
"This trail is a bit steep but people of all ages were walking on it. It is so spectacular. We had blue sky which only enhanced appearance of the glacier . Off to one side, snow was falling off a cliff with a great force. The road to the trail is twisty and requires careful driving but the reward of walking in this special place is so worth the drive."
"ok, rough road getting there made me worry that we took the wrong turn, and an odd hike over stones deposited by receding ice fields. But we got to step inside an ice cave! I had read about this gem and so glad I went there. There were also little ponds of melted ice with 'ice figures'."
"There is no doubt this trail is a must-do. It ascends from the magnificent cavell pond, through an alpine forest and into an alpine meadows, and all along the way you have amazing views of the glaciers and the mountain range. As advised, we arrived early, welcomed by an empty parking lot (which quickly filled up later on) but also by rain and cold winds. We had rain jackets, but being Israelis and of average fitness, we are not used to hike in this kind of weather (and neither to hiking in heights over 1000m). Also - I had to carry over 20kg on me (baby in the carrier, all the baby stuff, 3 liters of water and heavy DSLR system) making the ascend even more challenging. We all finished the hike completely exhausted and I also got a nasty shoulder pain. I still think it was worth it - but other families like us should consider all this before taking on the longer trail option."
"A short ride south of Jasper along the Icefields parkway is the turnoff to Mount Edith Cavell and Angel Glacier. Very nice ride, although there are a lot of hairpin turns at the end of the ride. After parking you take a walk (a bit strenuous) to the glacier area and you come upon a glacier that resembles an angel. Very beautiful venue, but it comes with a warning. There is a sign along the walk that says this is where the glacier was during the '50s. Key word: was. It is quite a ways from where the glacier currently begins. And I'm guessing that within a couple of decades this attraction will have gone the way of the dinosaur what with the glacier melting we are currently experiencing. In other words, if you are in the area, go while it is still there. :)"
Easy trip from Jasper with large car park and portable toilets available. A good work out to climb the trail but worth the effort to see the glaciers. This is above the tree line so the air is cooler but the fresh air is exhilarating. The first snow was the day before our visit which made the view of the mountains spectacular. We were not allowed near the glaciers for fear of avalanche which meant our visit was less than 2 hours
"We were at the last August long-week end. We arrived before 10:00 AM following advices, thus we found car park. Later, it was crowded and many people had to park really very far. Awesome views during all the trail. We went from the glacier view to the peak and down in 4 hours. We are a couple in middle 50's and we could make it without too much run and taking time to enjoy the views and shot dozens of pictures. We made the mistake of not bringing hiking shoes and poles. We experience some difficulty at the very top.The trail is very well maintained. We could appreciate the efforts made by National Parks (thumbs up!) to recover the meadows and that is great. Watching the wildflowers and young trees developing is rewarding. Looking at the Angel glacier and the gone Ghost we thought about the impact of the climate change. The moraines are incredible and shows the force of glaciers. You can appreciate how the vegetation evolves with the altitude. In summary, it is a truly valuable geography living lesson for all ages. I saw many, many families with small kinds and everybody looked happy. other advantage: it is very close to Jasper and near camps. So, after the hike you can quickly go to eat something or rest. Only on detail: one visitor was bringing a large Rottweiler (!!!) dog in a restricted section: the long trail to the meadows and top (some sections allow dogs...). I talked with him about the prohibition but he ignored my suggestion. Y suggest that National Parks guards controlling the people coming with pets."
"Easy to find with a large free car park. Steep climb uphill and then a difficult climb over boulders down to the glacier pond. Worth the effort though for the amazing experience of seeing icebergs in summer and of course the angel glacier. We wanted to walk up to the meadows but unfortunately the path was closed due to the danger of mudslides. Such a shame because we had planned to have a picnic there. A lovely place to visit but be warned - it's very crowded.While you're in the area, drive up the Marmot Basin road...the ski area was closed so we could only drive a short way but we saw black bears and a ginger black bear in the space of a few minutes!"
"The Edith Cavell Meadow is an amazing trail. With the youngest kid 5 years the trail without the 3rd viewpoint took us 3.5 hours. On the way we saw Marmot, and other small animals. There was still some snow/ice on the trail which made the kids very excited. the view of the Angel Glacier is amazing! We even got to see two avalanches."
"While in Jasper we travelled to the top of this location and it is a journey to remember, full of winding roads and narrow. The veiws are breathtaking to say the least and when we made it to the top we filled our water bottles with fresh glacier water and again the veiw is a true wonder. They have a traiiler drop off at the bottom as you are not allowed to tow a trailer up the hill due to the road, which I might add was in perfect condition. A must see if in Jasper."
"The fall of the piece of the Ghost Glacier in August 2012 destroyed what others have referred to as the trail to the right. There is only one trail but it is not too strenuous. It has a steady moderate incline. There were warnings, but no signs forbidding hikers from going all the way down to where the glacier fell. We hiked over the rocks down to the bottom. It was an amazing experience, looking up at the Angel Glacier and seeing the large chunk from the Ghost Glacier flosting in the lake. This was the highlight of our trip to Jasper and Lake Louise."
"This was the most amazing thing I did while I visited Jasper, AB. You must, must, must do it. It wasn't greatly advertised as some of the other trails in the area were, but it is simply stunning and I'm so glad I found it.Likes: No cost at all. This is an easy attraction to see--even though it is high up on a mountain, you drive about 97% of the way. Lots of parking at the top along with washrooms. There is a short hike to get to the glacier viewing site, but it is not physically demanding at all. It is paved and there are numerous benches along the way to stop if you need a rest. Interperative boards along the path are a nie touch. The hanging glacier is quite possibly the most amazing thing I've ever seen, and I've done a lot of outdoors hiking/adventures. It just is completely unlike anything I've ever seen before and you can get so close to it. Completely majestic. The glacial lake was beautiful, cold if you dip your toes into it. You can stay as long as you want, there is no one there to rush you out. Avalanches were happening while we were there, again, completely unique and beautiful.Keep In Mind: The guide I had used to get there was a bit outdated. It had said the trail up the mountain was not paved and that you'd need a relaly good car to get up the mountain. This is not so, as the road had been paved and it was an easy drive up. It is cold up there! We went in July and it was about 5 degrees C at the top, so dress warmly if you want to stay for any length of time. There are other hikes you can do from this area, but we didn't as it was a rainy day.Dislikes: Other drivers. This is not a Grand Pre course. The trail up the mountain is very steep with tight, sharp corners. Some people were flying up/down the mountain and nearly running us over, not to mention scaring and potentially harming wildlife with their recklessness. Slow down! And leave the campers at the bottom, there really isn't enough room to get large campers on the road."
"I've never had such an unexpected and awsome experience. The walk/hike at Mount Edith Cavell gets you as close as you can to absolutely stunning mountain views. My wife and I spent the morning by the Cavell glacier, dipped my hand in the glacial pond, then proceeded to take the additional walk up to Cavell meadows. The walk is doable and well worth the end result. It takes time; going slowly, for a couple of 50 year olds, it takes just over an hour. At the end you are rewarded with breathtaking views including 3 glaciers, a glacial lake, numerous waterfalls and a beautiful mountain meadow.A note of advice; go before 9 am, especially if the weather is clear. The parking lot is over-flowing by 11 am."
"We did not find this trail greatly promoted in our research of Jasper. In the travel video we rented on Banff. This trail was recommended if we wanted to mountain goat.When we went on the trail the drive up was incredible. Very exciting with the climb and rapid turns. It really put our rental car to the test. Once we arrive at the trail, we saw alot of squirrels native in the area welcoming visitors in the parking lot. After a short 45 min hike, you get to the glacier and the glacier pond. Strongely recommended this experience. It had tons of activities for the family."
"Well worth the drive (about 45 minutes from Jasper). The glacier loop is almost 2km long and the upper part f the loop has great views of angel glacier, snow falling off the cliffs and cavell lake. Was quite windy and cold when we went and the lake had large pieces of ice in it and was almost frozen over."
"The best things are found by accident. Last weekend we decided to drive to Jasper for one night and explore what nature had to offer. I have been visiting Jasper for years but I have never heard of Mount Edith Cavell or the Angel Glacier. We found this by accident in a free tourist booklet.The drive to Mount Edith Cavell is beautiful. This is the best scenic drive we went on in Jasper. The road is smooth, as a result, all of the twists and turns are phenomenal. The drive allows you to witness beautiful scenery and wildlife. The drive itself is worth it.Once you reach the parking lot, 40 - 50 minutes later, you begin your climb up Mount Edith Cavell. It's a beautiful 20 - 40 minute stroll to the top of the mountain for families with children, couples that are out of shape, and the elderly. It is a quick 10 - 20 minute walk for an individual in average shape. The walk or stroll to the top will bring you face-to-face with Angel Glacier. It is named as such because it has the appearance of an angel with out-swept wings. The glacier itself is hundreds of years old and a beautiful glacial lake has formed under Angel Glacier. Mount Edith Cavell is a must-see for every single tourist (or local) in the area. The vastness and the diverse landscape will leave you breathless!"
"Easy walk from the top car park, you can take the right or left fork as the trail goes around in a circle, right is easier as left is uphill from the start, total about 1.5 ks You finish up extremely close to the glacier with stunning views and the glacier lake with icebergs in it at your feet."
"We finally reached the trail after a very interesting drive up the mountain roads. You will see chipmonks and other small wildlife too. the roads are quite tricky on the way up but they seemed easier on the way down. It does get busy so it is better to get there as early as possible perhaps by 10am. It is a free attraction and there are toilets but nothing else there. You can opt for a difficult walk or a quick walk which would take baout half an hour or so. the quick walk does have quite a steep incluine intiially but you can avoid it by going the same way there and back bu turning just off right at the first notice board once you start the hill. the glacier itself is a truly amazing sight, you can get right close to it and even touch the cold waters and ice. the colours are so beautiful it is well worht the drive to get there."
This is a short drive up a twisty road off Highway 93 (not suitable for big RV's).Follow the trail and you end up at the beautiful Angel glacier. The pool at the base of the glacier is complete with chunks of ice floating in it. It's an impressive sight and while we were there we heard the ice cracking high above us which was pretty scary. Don't get too close as big chunks do fall off!I'd put this up there with the view of the Saskatchewan Glacier from Parker Ridge.
