 get each of us to remember and use the unlimited power that lies sleeping within us all. 

I ' II n

s that could assist any one of these people in 
empowering themselves to make the changes they desir

harness the principle I now call concentration of power. 
Most people have no idea of the giant capa

 never direct our focus; we never concentrate our power. 
Most people dabble their way through life,



Through it all, I've continued to recognize the power individuals have to change virtually 
anythi

d to living and being more to tap their God-given power. There are ideas and strategies in 
this boo

e principles are simple, they are 
also extremely powerful when they are skillfully applied. These a

onda, and many 
others who took the magnificently powerful step of raising their standards. The same

owerful step of raising their standards. The same power that was 
available to them is available to 

not believed with every fiber of his being in the power of nonviolent opposition? 
It was the congru

s which would have swayed a less committed man. Empowering beliefs— this sense of 
certainty— is the

I be coaching you? I'll offer you distinctions of power in how to create 
lasting improvements in th

to show you how to 
identify which emotions are empowering, which are disempowering, and how to use 

ify which emotions are empowering, which are disempowering, and how to use both kinds to your 
best 

ur emotions become not a hindrance, but instead a powerful tool in helping 
you achieve your highest

? Do you wake up every morning feeling energized, powerful, and ready to take on a new day? 
Or do y

ll 
bring you some new and unique distinctions of power that can help you move your life to the next

nciples that I have modeled from some of the most powerful and interesting people in our culture. 
I

. Or that 
by making one belief change, you could powerfully change your level of happiness. Yet in 

 her 
Calvins? The Ayatollah Khomeini had come to power in Iran and held our fellow Americans hostag

fat. Yet within a few short years I discovered a 
power that I used to transform virtually every are

r, and created the family I desired. I used 
this power to change my income from subsistence level t

 millions of 
people around the world. And it's a power I continue to use every single day of my lif

d Power, I made it abundantly clear that the most powerful way to shape our lives is 
to get ourselv

se, is what I 've been alluding to all along: the power of decision. 
Everything that happens in you

r lives. They've become examples of the unlimited power of the human spirit. 

I f we decide to, you

ppen, if I don't have to do anything." That's not power! It's a 
weak prayer made without even the f

t only limiting, they're destructive. 

Using the power of decision gives you the capacity to get pa

change it now. In a moment you can seize the same power that has shaped history. 

I 've written thi

en this book to challenge you to awaken the giant power of decision and to claim 
the birthright of 

ecision and to claim 
the birthright of unlimited power, radiant vitality, and joyous passion that i

efore you turn the 
page, you can make use of the power that already resides within you. Make the de

on now that can 
send you in a new, positive, and powerful direction for growth and happiness. 

Not

trade and a pacifist by principle— would have the power to topple a vast empire? Yet Ma-hatma 
Gandh

ts that would forever change the balance of world power. People didn't see how he could 
accomplish 

 



Decision was the source of John F. Kennedy's power as he faced off Nikita Khrushchev during the

ion was the source of Martin Luther King, 
J r.'s power as he gave voice so eloquently to the frustr

the source of his devastating downfall. It's the 
power that allowed Pete Rose to maximize his physi

d incredible joys 
and opportunities. This is the power that sparks the process of turning the invis

 

The most exciting thing about this force, this power, is that you already possess it. The 
explos

 this 
position for the disabled. 

Ed Roberts is powerful evidence that it's not where you start ou

er. All of his actions were founded in a single, 
powerful, committed moment of decision. What could

VON GOETHE 

If making decisions is so simple and powerful, then why don't more people follow Nike's

you're one of the people who's ever exercised the power of 
decision this way, you know exactly what

ned objective. 



This kind of clarity gives you power. With clarity, you can produce the results t

fe to the next level. 

I can't overemphasize the power and value of gaining even one, single distin

o change the course of your life. I nformation is power when it's 
acted upon, and one of my criteri

went to so many seminars is that I understood the power of a single distinction. It might be on the 

epetition is 
the mother of skill. Distinctions empower us to make better decisions and, therefore, 

e this knowledge with people in ways that truly empower them to improve their mental, 
emotional, ph

an emotional state— you can immediately produce a powerful and measurable 
change in your life. Most

es you do what you do. With these distinctions of power, you'll be able to understand the 
system of

e is one final impediment to really utilizing the power of decision. That is that we must overcome 


tates. It succeeds because one man understood the power of a truly committed decision that 
is acted

e give you six quick keys to help you harness the power of decision, the power that 
shapes your exp

ys to help you harness the power of decision, the power that 
shapes your experience of life every m

y moment that you live it: 

1. Remember the true power of making decisions. It's a tool you can use

 with your decision-making muscles. Unleash 
your power right now by making some decisions you've be

ade what seemed like a small decision, and it has powerfully shaped my life. I decided 
to do a semi

sion is the force that changes 
your life. It's a power available to you in any moment if you just d

o 
matter how long a wall has stood, none has the power to withstand the continued force of human 
b

 your life will change forever, and you will be empowered to take control of... 



3 
THE FORCE THA

question comes up in discussions about these twin powers that drive us: Why is it 
that people can e

d 
finally made the decision to use your personal power, take action and change your life, it was pr

ion and produce new 
results. We become even more powerfully compelled to act if, in that same momen

s compulsion to avoid this pain. It's a 
far more powerful motivator than his desire to gain pleasur

 bodies ravaged by cholera 
and dysentery. She is powerfully driven by the sensation that helping ot

ent. At the same 
time, I discovered an even more powerful form of pleasure, and that was achieved b

nizations have learned to link pleasure to making powerful decisions that have a huge 
potential to 

re. 

My wife, Becky, and I decided that the most powerful way to make sure our kids would never 
us

times since, they 
have never touched them. These powerful neuro-associations have significantly sha

o your own 
estimate of it; and this you have the power to revoke at any moment." 

MARCUS AURELIUS 

s consistent, as are their results! 

Through the power of our wills, then, we can weigh something l

overriding our pain in the short term by pure willpower never lasts 
simply because we still link pa

lue-jeans manufacturer in America today. 

Is the power of conditioning to shape our associations li

d to argue with the reality that pain was a very 
powerful motivator in shaping people's behavior. A

? The first step is simply becoming aware of the 
power that pain and pleasure exert over every deci

 in many cases, we must transform that fear into 
power. Many times, the fear that we are allowing t

then all my relationships. I'll 
develop more willpower which I could use in every other area of my 

te to yourself the control you have over the twin powers of pain and pleasure. 

This chapter has sh

s 
every aspect of our lives and that we have the power to change these associations and, therefore,

 this to remind people all over the world 
of the power of the human spirit to overcome virtually an

s that are holding you back. 



Beliefs have the power to create and the power to destroy . Human b

ack. 



Beliefs have the power to create and the power to destroy . Human beings have the awesome a

nce of their lives and create a meaning that disempowers them or one that can 
literally 10 save the

able to pick up the pieces and move 
on to live empowering lives. We all have the capacity to create

e all have the capacity to create meanings that empower us, but so 
many of us never tap into it, or

e and transform their experience by finding an 
empowering meaning for their pain. They developed th

Dr. Bernie Siegel. As we began to speak about the power of belief, Bernie shared with me some 
of th

ommands to our nervous systems, and they have the power to expand or destroy the possibilities of 
o

and we've already discussed that it would be disempowering, but 
don't you have experiences that cou

 one is true. What matters is which one is most empowering. We all can find someone to back up 
our 

r this belief is strengthening or weakening us, empowering or 
disempowering us on a daily basis. So

trengthening or weakening us, empowering or 
disempowering us on a daily basis. So what are the poss

thus no longer question them! This can 
have very powerful negative consequences depending upon the 

e time he was thirty years old. Certainty carries power! 

Do you know the story of the four-minute 

ve achieved success in any area of life, know the power of continuously, pursuing their 
vision, eve

you develop the absolute 
sense of certainty that powerful beliefs provide, then you can get yoursel

our lives. These beliefs strip us of our personal power and destroy our ability to act. In psycholog

endous pleasure to the 
idea of adopting a new, empowering belief. This is the basic pattern that we

e?" But questions can obviously be tremendously empowering if we use them 
to examine the validity o

s have that you're failing to question also— disempowering beliefs you've begun to 
accept that limi

hange 
someone's belief is almost scary, yet it's powerfully fascinating. I've learned to use these 

niques 
on myself to be able to eliminate my disempowering beliefs and replace them with empowering 

 my disempowering beliefs and replace them with empowering ones. 
Our beliefs have different levels 

ions— by the passion they inspire in us— can be empowering because they 
compel us to act. According

level of conviction. Remember, conviction has the power to drive you to action, to push you through 

 2) Reinforce your belief by adding 
new and more powerful references. For example, let's say you've

 black lungs. These kinds of experiences have the power to push you over the edge 
and establish tru

SHIFTING A BELIEF 

Again, pain is still the most powerful way to change a belief. A great illustrat

y to change a belief. A great illustration of the power of 
changed beliefs occurred on the Sally Je

d their consequences, to make sure that they're empowering us. How do you know what 
beliefs to adop

d 
all successful people lies a specific set of empowering beliefs. 

The way to expand our lives is

of those people who are already 
succeeding. It's powerful, it's fun, and these people are available

 I've developed a consistent plan not only for 
empowering other people but for constantly improving

eir business every single day would give them the power to dominate the markets of the 
world. Domin

r two become one of the world's dominant economic powers. 

Many thought Deming's proclamations were

nstantly strive to learn and to make new and more powerful 
distinctions about ways to add value to 

 new experiences. And we may develop even more 
empowering beliefs, abandoning things we once felt c

ters now is whether the beliefs you have 
today empower or disempower you. Begin today to develop th

ether the beliefs you have 
today empower or disempower you. Begin today to develop the habit of foc

torm all the beliefs you have, both 
those that empower you and disempower you: little beliefs that 

s you have, both 
those that empower you and disempower you: little beliefs that don't seem to matte

done, I'll show you how you can strengthen your empowering beliefs 
and eliminate the disempowering 

n your empowering beliefs 
and eliminate the disempowering ones. Do it right now. 



EMPOWERING BEL

to make sure you wrote out both lists, both the empowering beliefs and 
disempowering beliefs? If no

both lists, both the empowering beliefs and 
disempowering beliefs? If not, go back and do it now! 


beliefs. Decide upon and 
circle the three most empowering beliefs on your list. How do they empower

st empowering beliefs on your list. How do they empower you? How do they 
strengthenyour life? Think

beliefs carry with them? Circle the two most disempowering beliefs. Decide right now, 
once and for 

those legs of certainty out from under your 
disempowering beliefs by asking yourself some of the fo

rect your behavior in an entirely new and 
more empowering way. 

If you're not getting the results 

're capable of. Do you 
truly want to harness the power to create the vision you want rather than de

 dreams? Then 
learn to choose the beliefs that empower you; create convictions that drive you in th

 EF 

Leaders are those individuals who live by empowering beliefs and teach others to tap their ful

er. Thirty years ago, Marva utilized her personal power and decided to touch the 
future by making a

man and so many others like him with the kinds of powerful beliefs 

that will continue to shape his

r standard, she assists them in adopting new, 

empowering beliefs that enable them to break through

 we've learned so far. We're clear that there's a power inside 
us that needs to be awakened. That p

 power inside 
us that needs to be awakened. That power starts with the capability to make conscious

wanted to change our lives, whether it was a disempowering habit 
or a phobia that had been controll

st people 
have tried again and again through willpower to make changes, and failed. The assumption 

change! We don't have an effective strategy. 
Willpower by itself is not enough— not if we want to a

ently in your life without constant effort or willpower. Remember, it's the feelings that we've 
bee

ndition your neuro-associations so that you are empowered to take action and produce 
the results yo

, and we have the capacity to do this quickly and powerfully if we 
understand . . . 



THE POWER O

briefly focus upon this unparalleled 30 vessel of power and how we can condition it 
to consistently

d a little glucose. In terms of its intricacy and power, the brain defies even our 
greatest modem c

ing network of 100,000 miles of nerve fibres. The power of your brain 
to process information is sta

 a 
second— a feat beyond the ability of the most powerful computers. The brain achieves this speed 

problem 
simultaneously. So with all this immense power at our disposal, why can't we get ourselves 

onnection 
will weaken and atrophy. Thus the disempowering emotional pattern or behaviour disappears

o 
change behavior by breaking patterns that disempower you. But first, we must understand how the 


confused. As a result, you lose momentum 
and the power to take the decisive actions that could give

teps of NAC will help you to interrupt these disempowering patterns. You will create 
alternative pa

f to feel and behave consistent with your new, 
empowering choices. Without changing what you link p

 
outcome of which is to find a more direct and empowering way to get out of pain and into pleasure,

ighway out of pain and into pleasure with no disempowering detours. They are: 



NAC MASTER STEP 1 

ant, the more clarity you will have, and the more power you will 
command to achieve what you want m

tivation, which in turn 
comes down to those twin powers that shape our lives, pain and pleasure. 



ere unhappy, your fear of the unknown was a 
more powerful motivating force. "Yeah, I'm unhappy now,

elves their inconsistencies. This is a much more 
powerful lever than attacking someone. If you try 

you develop new 
choices that are enjoyable and empowering. 

I created a fun pattern interrupt rece

came back to him, and assisted him in selecting empowering alternatives to the chocolate, 
laying do

wn some new pathways to pleasure that were more empowering and didn't require him to 
consume someth

ction with a smorgasbord of healthful behaviors: 
power breathing, exercise, water-rich foods, prope

You've got enough leverage; now scramble the disempowering feelings until they no longer come up. 
A

ace to ... 



NAC MASTER STEP 4 
Create a New, Empowering Alternative. 

This fourth step is absolu

 and spit. This did not 
match my picture of this powerful and elegant man. But he'd been doing it f

ter software 
companies on Wall Street. Even more powerfully, now that he needed a new companion, he

 a neurological way 
is created. If you find an empowering alternative, imagine doing it until you s

k to the old pattern. If you rehearse 
the new, empowering alternative again and again with tremendo

they'll actually become 
difficult to take. 

The power of conditioning can't be overestimated. I re

ssessments as excuses to binge. Understanding the power of 



rehearse MUSI K, THEATER proben 



r

iple of any type of "Success Conditioning" is the power of reinforcement. You 
and I must know that 

 Akkusativ; through durch) 



The third and most powerful way to motivate people is through persona

entive program; just 
make sure you have the most powerful incentive of all, which is to help people

 noting that you do feel certain that your new 
empowering alternative is automatic, you will know t

ng that 
you've left out this step. Find a new, empowering alternative for getting yourself out of p

ourself out of pain and into 
pleasure that is as powerful and convenient as your old approach was. 




of reinforcement to make sure that your new, empowering pattern lasts. The six steps of NAC can b

How can you use the six steps to change this disempowering pattern? 

1) Ask yourself, "What do I wa

ning!" at the top of your lungs. 

4) Create an empowering alternative. What will you do instead of 

e factors is the foundation for understanding the power of state. Without a 
doubt, everything you a

ly want. Mentally, you've 
got to focus on what empowers you. Whatever you focus on— whatever you tu

YSIOLOGY: THE POWER OF MOVEMENT 

One of the most powerful distinctions that I 've made in the last 

or a skip 54 instead of a jog. Skipping is such a powerful way to change your state 
because it does

ple's states, too, by making them laugh. 

What a powerful thing laughter is! My son Joshua has a fr

se of 
strength, flexibility, a sense of personal power, and fun. Realize that stagnation comes from

 and feel good about them in advance. This is the power that goals offer and why we'll 
be focusing 

e way things really are. 
Think of that view— the power of our focus— as being a camera lens. The ca

 feel happy or sad. A 
fantastic metaphor for the power of focus is racing cars— a real passion for 

 will be opened to you." 

MATTHEW 7:7 

The most powerful way to control focus is through the use o

"How can I turn this around?" you'll get a more empowering answer. Questions are 
such a powerful to

t a more empowering answer. Questions are 
such a powerful tool for changing your life, I 've reserv

clusively about 
them. 

They are one of the most powerful and simple ways to change the way you're 

 the pain associated with prison was a force more powerful than the pleasure 
of satisfaction he tho

e that some of these submodalities are much 
more powerful for you than others. We're all made diffe

ut of a limiting 
state and into an energizing, empowering one. And you can be better equipped to co

er equipped to continue your 
pathway to personal power. 

Knowing the large part that submodalities

over shop, smoke, or take a drug— none of which empower us, and all of which can have 
disastrous an

vement in an instant. One of the things that most powerfully 
changed my life was something I first 

ng the result. 

This act transformed my sense of power and certainty throughout my whole body. I be

 in which you change quickly gives you tremendous power in your life— something you can't 
fully app

arned in the chapter on beliefs, drugs can be overpowered 
by the chemicals you create in your own b

g your 
physiology. These chemicals are much more powerful than virtually any outside substance. 

"

 But 
really, do you have a set of specific and empowering ways to make yourself feel good at a mome

I realized that playing music was one of the most powerful ways I 
could change my state quickly. Re

habits and more and 
more pleasure to these new empowering ones, you'll find that most of them are a

ay, 
or are continuing to focus in a certain disempowering way. If it's your focus that needs to be 


burning question. For whatever reason, the giant power of the human mind and spirit awakened in thi

eir own answers. 

When I realized the incredible power of questions to shape our thoughts and liter

hey got better answers. They got 

answers that empowered them to know exactly what to do in any sit

e-pound lump of gray matter can give you more firepower instantly for coming up with 
solutions to c

ing up with 
solutions to challenges and creating powerful emotional sensations than anything in man

om your own personal databanks is the commanding 
power of asking questions. 

"Always the beautiful

is more than likely due to asking themselves disempowering questions on a regular basis, 
questions 

y she's his wife. 

That's the beauty of asking empowering questions: they bring us an irreplaceable

mit 
myself now and miss out?" What terribly disempowering questions! This fuels the fear that the g

er lose a holy curiosity." 
ALBERT EINSTEIN 

The powerful distinctions that Einstein made resulted 

s of questions. Were they simple? 
Yes. Were they powerful? Absolutely. What power could you unleash

imple? 
Yes. Were they powerful? Absolutely. What power could you unleash by asking some equally sim

ld you unleash by asking some equally simple 
but powerful questions? Questions are undeniably a mag

tever you look for you'll find. 
So with all this power between our ears, why aren't more people "ha

most 
importantly, they fail to consciously ask empowering questions of themselves. They run roughsh

process with no forethought or sensitivity to the power they are abusing or failing 
to ignite by th

changing our focus. Most of us don't realize the 
power of memory management. Isn't it true that you

 you know how effective this is); create a new, empowering 
alternative with a set of better questio

r life. 



A SKI LL OF POWER 

Learning to ask empowering questions in moments of crisis is a criti

the results you're getting. 

Ask yourself some empowering questions right now. What are you truly h


THE POWER OF PRESUPPOSITION 

Questions have the power to affect our beliefs and thus what we consi

g questions can weaken the reference legs of disempowering 
beliefs, enabling us to dismantle them a

us to dismantle them and replace them with more empowering ones. But did you 
realize that the speci

 taking others for granted? This is known as the 
power of presupposition, something of which you sh

trap of accepting someone else's or your own disempowering presuppositions. Find 
references to back

s. Find 
references to back up new beliefs that empower you. 

3. Questions change the resources ava

le of someone who really utilized the incredible 
power of questions. With one simple question, he c

 of Ford Motor 
Company. You and I have that same power at our disposal every moment of the day. At 

 develop a pattern of consistent questions that empower you. You and I both know 
that no matter wha

ic way to deal with challenges. So, realizing the power of 
questions to immediately change my state

here! I began to 
ask myself some incredibly disempowering questions: "How come I have no time? Why 

uestions, you'll find that you access your most empowering emotional 
states on a regular basis, and

ourself to ask the kinds of questions that will empower you to 
experience greater richness in life.

 Gl FT OF QUESTI ONS 

Once you know how to ask empowering questions, you not only can help yourself

 In any situation, you can focus 
on what is disempowering, or on what is empowering, and if you loo

 focus 
on what is disempowering, or on what is empowering, and if you look for it that's what you'l

k for a new office. 

In a matter of minutes, the power of questions had worked their magic. He alwa

urces 
to be able to deal with this, but the disempowering questions he'd asked had rendered his pow

sempowering questions he'd asked had rendered his power 
inaccessible, and had caused him to see him

s 
great about any situation, I usually find some powerful, positive meaning, and by asking how I ca

am I here?," and "Who am I?" These are incredibly powerful 
questions, but if you wait to get the pe

at least m the moment, and you use your 
personal power to follow through and begin to change the qu

.. 



9 
THE VOCABULARY OF ULTIMATE SUCCESS 

"A powerful agent is the right word. Whenever we come

, our greatest leaders and thinkers have used the power of words to 
transform our emotions, to enli

s creed . . ."? 
Many of us are well aware of the powerful pan that words have played in our history

pan that words have played in our history, of the power that 
great speakers have to move us, but fe

ve to move us, but few of us are aware of our own power to use these same words 
to move ourselves e

 experience of our lives can heighten our most 
empowering emotions. A poor selection of words can d

of possibilities available to us. Realize now the power that your words command if you simply 
choos

better." 

For years I 've observed firsthand the power of changing just one key word in communicati

s, and other sensations mean? One of 



the most powerful ways that man has learned to quickly deci

iption, we often force the experience into a disempowering mold. We form habitual favorites: 

molds

n explain what they were. There is no denying the power of labels to create sensations and 
emotions

nces." 
ALDOUS HUXLEY 

As I began to explore the power of vocabulary, I still found myself fighting

akespeare! by Michael Macrone, is a smattering of powerful, 


state- inducing 


words 


coined by

f words, the more impressed I became with their 

power to sway human emotion, not only within mysel

positive or 
negative. This means it gives us the power to take the most negative feelings in our li

ve them to even greater heights of pleasure and empowerment. 

Later that day, as Bob and I were hav


In one stroke I had purged my vocabulary of disempowering language and thus a feeling that can 
dev

 words you're using is creating states that 
disempower you, get rid of those words and replace them

of those words and replace them with those that empower you! 
At this point you may be saying, "This

ty intense arguments." But after 
discovering the power of the labels we put on our experience to al

rn. Our new pattern is to make a joke of our disempowering 
feelings before they ever reach the poin

CABULARY TO HELP OTHERS 

Once you understand the power of words, you become highly sensitized not o

 to use 
it, immediately replace it with a more empowering word. Instead of 'depressed,' say, 'I'm f

' He knows that he's about to have the incredibly powerful 
experience of entertaining thousands of 

wer their 
intensity so they didn't impact you as powerfully, so you were always in charge? What wou

sure they are ones that you use regularly to disempower yourself. To 
discover some of the words you

ous, or at least lower the intensity. 

Old, Disempowering Word New, Empowering Word 

1. 

2. 

3. 

r the intensity. 

Old, Disempowering Word New, Empowering Word 

1. 

2. 

3. 

How do you make sur

e the choice of feeling good! 
Maybe an even more powerful way to get leverage is to do what I did: 

 intensity; it also offers 
us the opportunity to powerfully intensify our experience of positive em

ect 


extraordinary 


pleasant 


monumental 


powerful 


invincible 



pretty good 


coolamun


confident 


secure 


emboldened 


secure 


empowered 


smart 


g ifted 


stimulated 


charg

our three friends to make sure you use these new, powerful, 
positive words, and have fun doing it! 

icate 
with your kids? Often we don't realize the power our words have on them. Children, as well as

re so 
clumsy!"— a pattern that can in some cases powerfully undermine a child's sense of self-worth

 call the Reality Bridge, the foundation for more powerful and positive 
communication between two p

communication between two people— and have a more powerful, positive impact on your kids. 
The key i

up to us ever again. So we've got to realize 
the power of our words, both to create and to destroy.

equent hostilities, a jihad, or "Holy War," which powerfully transformed the Iraqi citizens' 
percep

you can't use a word. But selecting words that 
empower you is critical. 

By the same token, is it 

l Vocabulary is one of the single most simple and powerful steps toward that 
goal. 

Beware of labe

einforces the idea that the words we use 
produce powerful biochemical effects. In an interview with

h people, it's imperative that you understand the power of words 
to impact those around you. 

If y

tiny seminar, we witnessed a great example of the power of using words to 
change someone's state in

abitually use, and replace them with ones 
that empower you, raising or lowering the emotional inten

ur commitment, follow through, and 
know what the power of this simple tool in and of itself will ac

ething that's equally fun and equally simple in empowering you to 
manage your emotions consistently

 pits." 

In the last chapter we talked about the power of words to shape our lives and direct our d

s? If you're like many people, the cross has more power to 
produce immediate positive emotions. It'

thing but two intersecting lines, but it has the 
power to communicate a standard and a way of life 

 contrast it with the word "Nazi." Which has more power to influence you 
negatively? 

Again, if yo

d the promise of redemption 68 . 
Metaphors can empower us by expanding and enriching our experience

't aware of what I was doing. (That's pan of the 
power of creating a label: once you have a label f

f a squirt gun, I immediately shattered his 
disempowering imagery, and thereby changed his emotiona

of me, and I just can't break 
through." But disempowering metaphors can be changed just as quickly 

y slope 
of middle age." What a horrible and disempowering way to represent your expanding wisdom! I

elves to unconsciously select metaphors that disempower us 
on a consistent basis. We must take char

roblem metaphors, 
but so that we can adopt the empowering metaphors as well. 

Once you become sens

r the use of a metaphor. So ask yourself a more empowering question. Ask, 
"What would be a better m

ould be a better metaphor? What would be a more empowering way of thinking of this? What 
else is th

e. J ust as with Transformational Vocabulary, the power of 
metaphors is in their simplicity. 

Year

ou deal 

with the world at large. 

With all the power that metaphors wield over our lives, the sca

on me to create their change— which would never empower 
them. Since I believe that we all must be r

own. But because coaches 
have concentrated their power in a particular area for years, they can tea

to the ground, and through nothing but the 
sheer power of his will, crawled out the door and yelled

 T THE WORD TO THE DEED 

Being aware of the vast power contained in metaphors includes knowing how 

d "the Prince of Darkness"! What 
are some more empowering alternatives? 

Many people call their ma

 listen and learn from you. 



One of the most empowering global metaphors that has helped me throu

e, what does that mean? Each of your metaphors 
empower and limit. "All the world's a stage" may be 

our life in order to feel more happy, free, and empowered? 

2. Make a list of all the metaphors tha

you link to relationships or marriage. Are they empowering or 
disempowering? Remember, conscious aw

onships or marriage. Are they empowering or 
disempowering? Remember, conscious awareness alone can 

ew choices for your life. 

4. Create new, more empowering metaphors for each of these areas. Decide

cide that you are going to live with these new, empowering metaphors for the next thirty 
days. 

I 

 metaphors, transforming vocabulary, and asking empowering questions, you 
are ready to harness. . .

 ultimately, you can't avoid feeling. A much more powerful approach is to learn to find the 
hidden,

r physiology, and they keep asking 
the same disempowering questions. Experiencing an emotion and tr

is — and then they are truly trapped. A much more powerful and healthy 
approach to dealing with the

m I feeling a little uncomfortable?" Remember the power of 
Transformational Vocabulary to immediate

ssage This 
Emotion Is Offering You 
Remember the power of changing emotional states? If you put you

on immediately. The quickest, simplest, and most 
powerful way I know to handle any emotion is to re

s you do about them. 



3) Ask yourself a more empowering question like "In the long run, is it tru

re effective plan for achieving it. 

5) The most powerful antidote to the emotion of disappointment

d. Grief happens when you feel like there is no empowering meaning 
for something that has happened,

can control and realize that there must be some empowering meaning to it all, 
even though you can't

ourse we'll feel overloaded. But we also have the power to change 
this by focusing on what we can c

e, every one of these emotions is offering 
you empowering messages and a call to change either your

s and a call to change either your false and disempowering perceptions or 
your inappropriate proced

ix steps, getting curious, 
and discovering the empowering meaning it's offering you. 

"We must cul

you could only love enough, you could be the most powerful person in the world." 



EMMET FOX 

2. 

ION AND GRATITUDE. I believe that all of the most powerful emotions are some 
expression of love, ea

to a tremendous opportunity. Passion is unbridled power to move our lives forward at 
a faster tempo

 
being stuck and being struck with the lightning power of commitment. If you want to get yourself t

've never previously 
encountered, is through the power of faith. Imagine and feel certain about the

nd you feel happier as well. Cheerfulness has the power to eliminate the 
feelings of fear, hurt, an

t passion. Once your garden is filled with 
these powerful emotions, then you can share your bounty 

e of overload disappears with a sense of personal power and vitality. 
Loneliness melts away the mom

t that will fully associate you to the simple and powerful tool of 
emotions. 



1) Over the next t

 Over the next two days, any time you feel a disempowering or negative emotion, follow the 

six ste

d to "abandon" me, I'd just follow them! (Other empowering 
beliefs include, "This, too, shall pass"

know. What we really need is a reason to 
use the power of our decisions, to change our beliefs, to 

g hold of your life and squeezing from it all the power, passion, 

and "juice" you know can be your

hes! 

Now it's time for you to grab hold of this powerful force within you. Once you decide to awak

life. Do you think 
these goals will give you the power to tap the vast reserve of power within you?

ill give you the power to tap the vast reserve of power within you? Hardly! You and I 
must remember

u, something that will cause you to unleash your 
power. The way I usually know I've set the right g

 of his own! 
How do goals create this incredible power to shape destiny? How can they take a young 

on toward its 
fulfillment. You already have this power to act. If you haven't been able to summon i

lding you back? Surely you've been exposed to the power of goal setting before reading this 
book. B

 for constant, never-ending improvement. There is power in the pressure of dissatisfaction, 
in the 

four-part Fijian 
harmony. It was one of the most powerful and deeply moving experiences of our live

ife, from honeymooners to retired couples to high-powered CEOs burdened by the 
frenzied 83 pace of 

re! 

One man whose life I believe represents the power of a compelling future to change one's abili

At the age of 48 Peter has become one of the most powerful 
and respected men in the motion picture 

amed when Michael Keaton was selected to play the powerhouse 
role of Batman). In spite of continuou

e was "retarded 92 ." 

But Peter understands the power of emotion; he consistently chooses to produ

VATING SYSTEM TO ACHIEVE YOUR GOALS 

What is the power that a Peter Guber or a Michael Landon taps 

lity. 

Remember, if you get inspired enough, the power you'll unleash 94 from within will find a wa

g enough reasons to achieve these goals. Having a powerful 
enough why will provide you with the nec

g up with your top four one-year goals. The most 
powerful 

way to continue this momentum is to tak

nnyman George Bums understands the importance and power of a compelling future. 
When asked to sum u

hat for creating a compelling future?! 

Use your power. You now know what to do to inspire yourself

Throughout this book you've learned a wealth of 

powerful tools and strategies to make your life ri

 this book and fail to use it, it's like buying a powerful new computer and never taking it out of t

 

a way that can help you condition these new, empowering alternatives and make them absolutely 

c

sourceful emotional state. 

It doesn't usually empower us to take action, but rather, it tends to c

ing your state. You could ask 

yourself a more empowering question like, "What could I learn from t

s on what they can't control are continually disempowered. Yes, it's true, we can't control the wind

shares the capacity to remain centered, clear and powerful in 

the midst of emotional "storms." How

ughts or feelings. 
Refuse to indulge in any disempowering questions or devitalizing vocabulary or m

will focus you in the direction of establishing empowering 
mental and emotional patterns each day a

nge with the ten-day Mental Challenge can produce powerful results that can take 
your life to anoth

rom limiting habits and flexing the muscles of 
empowerment. You'll be sending your brain a new mess

 commanding new results. You will be 
demanding empowering emotions, enriching thoughts, inspiring q

giving your brain strong signals 
to search for empowering patterns. By setting a higher standard fo

 to conditioning their nervous systems for new, empowering 
emotional patterns that can take their l

ons, using Transformational Vocabulary and more empowering global metaphors, and instantly 
changing

nge to you to start using them. 

Believe me, the power inherent in this little exercise is amazing.

ack. Second, it will make your brain search for empowering alternatives to them. 

Third, it will gi

g your 
system of the old, you might want to be empowering it by continuing to read the new. And the

 you've learned anything from this book, it's the power of decisions. You're at a critical point in 

ategies and distinctions that can now be 
used to powerfully and positively shape your life. My ques

ng to make the commitment to make some simple yet powerful improvements in 
your life. I know that's

asp of these organizing principles, then we are empowered not only to influence 
people for positive

that we have a personal philosophy, much less the power it has to direct our evaluations of 
what th

 generalizing —and more often than not, in a disempowering way. "What a terrible serve" 
becomes "I 

 of the National Hockey League. What makes him so powerful? Is it because he's the biggest, 
stronge

im in his financial evaluations. Buffet employs a powerful 
metaphor he learned from his friend and 

r references into beliefs and rules that either empower 

or disempower us. Each day you and I have 

o beliefs and rules that either empower 

or disempower us. Each day you and I have the opportunity 

ne of the five elements of the Master System will powerfully affect the way you think, feel, and 
be

his process of creating a global change can 
be a powerful force for shaping destiny. 

"Take away t

ing up a new Master System that is consistently empowering. You already know the power 

of state an

 is consistently empowering. You already know the power 

of state and questions, so let's proceed t

ailed. Bail 117 was set at $13 million. When high-powered diplomatic negotiations failed to 
get res

 
commitment translated to these young people the power of values. They learned from him discipline,

 the importance of the team, flexibility, and the power of absolute determination. 
He didn't talk t





about what's right and what's wrong. There is power in individuals who congruently lead lives wh

erent. On the other hand, there's an unbelievable power in living your values: a 
sense of certainty

was freedom, 
followed by passion, adventure, and power. I know you're going to make different decis

 
instantly changed. Shifting priorities produces power. Knowing your own values helps you to get mo

er shape thou shalt prefer. 

Thou shalt have the power out of thy soul's judgment, 

To be reborn i

gives me drive and excitement and energy and 
the power to impact people in positive ways. It makes 

have. They generally fear that they'll lose their power or 
drive if they feel happy first, I'm here

 I use in seminars, but let me remind you 
of the power of leverage. Many people who have attended D

t still feel unhappy, unless you understand the 

power of... 



16 
RULES: IF YOU'RE NOT HAPPY, HE

 get pleasure 
rules. Failure to understand their power can destroy any possibility for lifelong hap

earned helplessness. We certainly want to use the power of goals, the 
allure of a compelling future

ttracted to him; to her 
this meant he was a very powerful man. But what's interesting was her secon

od, and very easy to feel bad. Let me give you a 
powerful example. Here are the values of a woman w

 for us to 
feel bad. 
How do we know if a rule empowers or disempowers us? There are three primary 

l bad. 
How do we know if a rule empowers or disempowers us? There are three primary criteria: 

1. 

here are three primary criteria: 

1. It's a disempowering rule if it's impossible to meet. If your 

ver win the game of life, clearly you have a disempowering rule. 

2. A rule is disempowering if som

ou have a disempowering rule. 

2. A rule is disempowering if something that you can't control deter


has to be a certain way, you clearly have a disempowering rule. A classic example of this is the pe

 their specific expectations. 

3. A rule is disempowering if it gives you only a few ways to feel g

aged to meet all three of these criteria for disempowering rules, hadn't she? Having to 
feel that a

ship with her daughter and husband. But even more powerful were the changes she made in 

her rules.

S 

Health and Vitality: Anytime I feel centered, powerful, or balanced; anytime I do anything that 

ther rules are right or wrong, but whether they empower 
or disempower you. In fact. . . 



EVERY U

right or wrong, but whether they empower 
or disempower you. In fact. . . 



EVERY UPSET I S A RULE

r the right rules. Rules 
should be designed to empower our relationships, not destroy them. Any tim

hange your criteria and come up with rules that empower you. What do your rules need 
to be in order

lity of your relationships. 
Remember, the most empowering rule is to enjoy yourself no matter what 

stions direct our focus and evaluations, and the 
power of values and rules to shape our lives. Now 

le of, 

as well as organize your references in empowering ways. 

"The knowledge of the world is on

ife experience and pull out those memories that empower you most on a consistent basis? 
As you lear

Do you consciously interpret them in ways 
that empower you, in ways that support the achievement of

y are doing is sharing with me some of their most powerful references, and it 
amazes me how many di

imagination is ten times more potent than our willpower. Because 
Bannister was able to use his imag

past, not live in it- 
focus on the things that empower you. 



READI NG I S FEEDI NG YOUR Ml ND 



o solitary confinement to discover the beauty and power of cultivating a 
bountiful treasure chest o

th people, and get new ideas. All references have power, and you 
never know which one could change 

ow which one could change your entire life. 

The power of reading a great book is that you start th

ng after you've turned the last page. That is the power of literature, of a good play, of music; tha

" 
Inevitably I'd tell them that I understood the power of repetition, and each time I heard somethi





complacent selbstzufrieden, -gefallig 



The power of having new references to raise our standa

 
Using contrasting references is one of the most powerful ways, then, to change our perceptions and

 sure that she was trying to find 
some form of empowering meaning for herself and her children from

nding in this 
experience a shred of meaning to empower them at some level. When I asked her what th

rom the most painful experience of her life and empowered her. 

What a powerful woman! How lucky th

xperience of her life and empowered her. 

What a powerful woman! How lucky these children are! She 

the worst days in our lives are actually the most powerful in 
terms of the lessons we can choose to

g your imagination and 
flexing your muscles of empowerment. You've learned how to manage your state

idea interrupt you; vou must actively seek 
it. Empowering ideas and experiences must be pursued. 



can always use whatever life has to offer in an empowering way, but we have to do it proactively. 
T

ults as everyone else in society does. 

The most powerful way to have a great understanding of life

understand and appreciate people, one of the most powerful ways is to share 
some of their reference

KE 

Now let's take inventory of some of the most powerful references that have shaped your life. Ta

ake a 
moment now and write down five of the most powerful experiences that have shaped who you've 


for those of us who are younger! 
One of the most powerful references I have shared with my family i

 but with everyone you meet. 

These beliefs will powerfully impact your career, your level of trust

apabilities, and opportunities in general. 

More powerful than any of these, though, is the core be

rchers have shown that students' capabilities are powerfully impacted by the 

identities they devel

We all need to remember that we have 

tremendous power to influence the identities of those we care

tities of those we care about most. 

This is the power that Marva Collins commands when she influen

we are, even when they are 

destructive and disempowering. 

The only way to create lasting change 

 their allies, the 
North Koreans, understood the power of identity to instantaneously change not on

future," Xerox 
wanted to use their technological power to enter this exciting new market. They put 

me frame 
you use to define your identity is very powerful as well. Do you look to your past, your p

 feel 
relaxed, safe, and curious. If you're just powering through this book, scanning and reading r

ativ); uberlegen, nachdenken uber (Akkusativ) 



power within you right now. In fact, after looking

ft. She was no longer a wimp, but an adventurous, powerful woman about to have the time of her 
life

 the transformation. Her evolution was simple yet powerful. This complete 
identity change now impac

want to have. As you make the list, 
revel in the power you have right now to change simply by decid

fluence your identity, 
notice whether they are empowering or disempowering you, and take control of

tity, 
notice whether they are empowering or disempowering you, and take control of the whole proces

in to 
identify with, we will become. This is the power of belief. 

"If we all did the things we ar

 decision consciously. Make it carefully. Make it powerfully. As we now leave our study of the 
Mast

y change the direction of 
your life. Cultivating powerful, resourceful states in your physiology wi

nd you've developed a broad 
spectrum of tools to powerfully and rapidly change any emotion you desi

replacing the old, limiting emotion with a new, empowering emotion, 
and condition this new pattern 


to share with you the fundamental secrets that empowered Stu Mittleman to train himself to 
accompl

bic and anaerobic exercise, between endurance and power. Aerobic means, literally, "with 
oxygen," a

refers to exercises that produce 
short bursts of power. Anaerobic exercise bums glycogen as its pri

econd to fourth month of exercise), you can build power by adding anaerobic exercise to your 
regime

o bum fat, or are blessed with a gift of speed or power, anyone can achieve endurance and vitality b

rrently avoid exercise, you will probably be more powerfully 
drawn to it once you discover how plea

t all! 



THE FOUNTAI N OF YOUTH 

An undeniably powerful totem in our culture is youth and physica

ady discussed, but you can continue to boost your power with short, 
explosive bursts of anaerobic e

assion will drift away. We don't want to lose the power of our relationships 
simply because we got 

l? Is it a tool or a weapon? A source of freedom, power, security? Or merely a means to 
an end? 

Y


important area. 

Let's begin by remembering the power that our beliefs have to control our behavio

this book is based upon the idea that we have the power to understand how our minds, 
bodies, and em

n enhanced by technology, and technology has also powerfully impacted our ability 
to utilize oil mo

ing 
alternatives to the use of petroleum for the powering of factories, automobiles, and even airpl

 what happened to the Hunt brothers of Texas is a powerful example that the old 
strategy of corneri

This is a common mistake made by some of the most powerful people in today's society who continue 
t

people to do 
more with less, then we truly are empowering others, and we will be empowered economic

 we truly are empowering others, and we will be empowered economically as well, 
as long as we put o

STRI BUTI ON WAVE OF THE FUTURE 

One of the most powerful ways of adding value in the nineties and 

ch people 
while I sleep?" As a result of those empowering questions, I discovered a way to expand m

g value creates wealth. The formula is simple and powerful. 
Ask yourself, "How can I add more value

 you accomplish this? You add another simple 
yet powerful factor to the equation I just explained. 

h. 

Most people have heard about the exponential power of compounding, but very few understand it. 

me offer you a simple and dramatic example of the power of compounding. If you fold a cloth 
napkin 

 go to the moon and back 1,179 times! This is the power of compounding. Most 
people don't realize t

 is enjoyable and rewarding. 

Also, remember the power and value of tithing. I can tell you that my

ing friendly, happy, loving, outgoing, playful, 

powerful, generous, outrageous, passionate, and fu

 myself into these states. 

I was happy, loving, powerful, funny, and I felt that what I said and d

d. J ohn says this creed has been one of the most powerful 
influences on his entire life and career

 a 
person keeps thinking of their future in disempowering ways. You can help this person or yoursel

ge their emotional state. Our emotions, then, are powerfully impacted by the time frame 
in which we

s urgent— after all, you might miss out on a high-powered phone 
conversation with a computerized su

han urgent. 

III. SAVE YOURSELF YEARS 

The most powerful way I 've learned to compress time is to 

top and think about the future in ways that are empowering. For example, think of 
goals that compel

born." 
RALPH WALDO EMERSON 

So many people feel powerless and insignificant when it comes to socia

, what good will it do? Some nut in a position of power could accidentally 
push the button and blow

without a 
doubt my central message: you have the power right now to control how you think, how you 

what you do. Perhaps for the first time you are empowered to take control of the Master 
System that

ur destiny. 

Together we've discovered the giant power that shapes destiny— decision— and that our 

resent and future. 

Now it's time to address the power of joint decisions to shape the destiny of o

acy that only some superhuman 
act would have the power to turn our problems around. Nothing could b

edia, even the 
simplest actions we take have the power to influence and move people of all nations.

gnity. She would personally 
do everything in her power to see that they would be treated better tha

es. Gen- 
eralizing about the homeless does not empower us to help them, and 
beyond a shadow of a d

h, was to see that the facilitator understood the power of 



questions to weaken even the most str

onmental organizations like 
Greenpeace, the most powerful thing you can do is to link pain to any o

f the industry. 

Are you concerned about nuclear power plants? If we were to re- 
duce by 50 percen

ould totally elimi- 
nate our reliance on nuclear power throughout the United States, as 
well as si

t that steak and say, 'That costs too much.' Real power lies in the 

* Lester Brown of the WorldWat

tive change: know what you 
want, use your buying power as leverage to interrupt destructive 
patter

hildren's teacher benefit by un- 
derstanding the power of questions, global metaphors. Transformati

 Demonstrate 
to your kids the effect of asking empowering questions, living according 
to values an


people share this experience? 

Indeed, the most powerful processional effect you will ever set in 

fishly is the foun- 
dation of fulfillment. 

The power of such programs is that by giving to others

many organizations that have a crying need for manpower and 
expertise, as well as financial and phy

ards of over 320 million 
hours of much-needed manpower dedicated to those causes that 
need it most

r help. In fact, I've designed my Foundation to empower locaal 
organizations already in place to su

-2200, ext. TR. 
"Only those who have learned the power of sincere 
and selfless contribution experi

 of dolphins, then maybe you and I —can 
also set powerful effects in motion. Often we don't know wh

e; learn to ask people new questions that will 
empower them; touch them in a new way. Capture these

 don't treat life so seriously that you 
lose the power of spontaneity, the pleasure that comes from

