Tweet/Post
"For many years, #JasperNP has held a Spring Flower Count. Volunteers & Parks staff collect data on the flowers that are blooming in the park, which is then used for climate change research as it helps describe ecological trends over time. "
"Why is there still a fire ban in JNP? Since May 1, there has been an average of 66 mm of rainfall in the park. It will take almost the same amount of rain over 2 days to significantly change the moisture of medium & large fuels. Until then, the fire ban remains in effect. "
"When the weather is warm, the thickness of natural ice can change from day to day"
#FridaysonFire Did you know fire can create its own weather?
Hi @kifehr The status of the fire ban is difficult to predict in advance as the weather and fuel conditions are always fluctuating. Fine fuels respond rapidly to changes in the environment; even if they are dampened by rain they can rebound given just one sunny day
"RT @tiffanywuest: Simple shot of Medicine Lake in #MyJasper. During summer, glacial waters flood the lake, but each…"
From floods to fire season: Fire danger is currently EXTREME – just like this year’s weather
"Today in @JasperNP we are experiencing smoke in the air. At this time, there are no wildfires, no fire ban and no air quality concerns. For current air quality conditions: https://www.canada.ca/en/environment-climate-change/services/air-quality-health-index.html … For smoke forecast: "
The fire is extinguished. The fire crew took immediate action to suppress the fire using a helicopter to bucket water. We continue to monitor the park for new wildfires and are ready to respond quickly. 
"The fire ban in #JasperNP, as well as the Municipality of Jasper, has been lifted. Thank you for your cooperation and support throughout this wildfire season. "
Interested in mountain pine beetle and wildfire preparedness? Join @JasperNP at the #JasperForum on March 13 from 6:45 pm to 9 pm to learn more. 
"save the date! You are invited to the @JasperNP Annual Public Forum on Tuesday, March 13, 2018. Join us to hear the Superintendent’s #YearinReview presentation and to discuss #MountainPineBeetle and #Wildfire Preparedness. "
There is no active fire in @JasperNP right now. Smoke and ash visable is coming from wildfires in BC
"Prescribed burns reduce wildfire danger to the public, improve forest health and reduce pine beetle habitat. "
#FridaysonFire Lightning detection systems provide real time lightning data & are valuable wildfire response tools. 
#WildJasper series presents 'The Excelsior Wildfire' Wed Nov. 18 - 7:00 PM at the Jasper #RoyalCanadianLegion
#WildWednesday The Excelsior Wildfire has already started to regenerate new grass in the burned area 
"The Excelsior Wildfire is now considered under control. Aerial View of the North End of Medicine Lake, July 19. "
"#Maligne collared #caribou safe, well away from Excelsior Wildfire, and has a calf! "
Get a bird’s-eye view of the Excelsior #Wildfire in the #Maligne Valley. #JasperFire
Fire suppression activities continues today with heli-bucketing and ground crews working on the Excelsior Wildfire. 
#JasperFire Crew mapped the area and determine the size of the Excelsior #wildfire to be approximately 1000 hectares. 
"Great news! With better visibility, @ParksCanada #JasperFire Crew was able to map the Excelsior #wildfire today. "
Canada Geese are keeping a good eye on the Excelsior #wildfire. Have a good night from our Jasper Fire Team! 
Special air quality statement in effect for #JasperNP. Wildfire smoke is causing locally poor air quality and reducing visibility. Please continue to monitor alerts and forecasts issued by Environment Canada
"Today in @JasperNP we are experiencing smoke in the air. At this time, there are no wildfires, no fire ban and no air quality concerns. For current air quality conditions"
The fire is extinguished. The fire crew took immediate action to suppress the fire using a helicopter to bucket water. We continue to monitor the park for new wildfires and are ready to respond quickly. 
The small wildfire near Wabasso Lake is not expected to spread beyond the initial 0.2 hectares burned. Crews are making good progress on extinguishing the fire and a helicopter is bucketing water from the lake. This fire is contained and does not pose any risk to people or assets
"The fire ban in #JasperNP, as well as the Municipality of Jasper, has been lifted. Thank you for your cooperation and support throughout this wildfire season. "
Fiddle West #prescribedfire creating protection from wildfires for neighbours east of #JasperNP & help manage mountain pine beetle
"#Wildfire Update- A park wide fire ban is now in effect for #JasperNP, including campgrounds"
It's National Wildfire Community Preparedness Day! What can you do to be safer from #wildfire
"Still fire season! @JasperNP working to extinguish small, lightning-caused wildfire today in the Whirlpool Valley. "
Smoke drifting into @JasperNP from BC #wildfires. NO fires burning in Jasper. Check out smoke forecast from Gov of BC
"Fascinating! RT @BanffNP: Bigger picture, including AB, B.C. and NWT. ""Smoke From Canada's Wildfires Seen From Space"
"Prescribed burning at Vine Creek continues, but much of the smoke in Jasper and Hinton areas is from wildfires burning elsewhere!"
"Replying to @OSutthery
.@OSutthery  It was closed to replace a water culvert and repair flood damage from last year. It's all ready to go now though."
Closure: A portion of Minnewanka Loop (lower) from July 29-31 for flood repair. Travel clockwise. Map : 
Help us fix flood-damaged trails @ Lower Bankhead (Lk Minnewanka loop). Be there at 9am Sat. morning with boots & water. BBQ lunch provided.
"@mfromc The flood damaged road is being repaired right now and will be ready as soon as possible, It's currently unsafe for the public."
"Need to know where to hike, bike or backcountry camp? Bookmark this page for post-flood updates:"
For all further updates & FAQ's about flood-related issues please go to our Information for Visitors page:
"FLOOD INFORMATION: Do you have questions about travel to Banff? Info on roads, campgrounds, and trip planning: http://www.parkscanada.gc.ca/banff "
@phoned Permits for travel on 93N are being issued to commercial traffic involved in flood response only at this time.
Stay safe everyone. Our thoughts are with everyone affected by today's floods. What incredible community spirit we've got in the Rockies.
Have you seen Harlequin ducks? Help us determine whether nests survived the June 5-6 flood.
"Wow, Jasper is drier than we are! Take note. RT @jaspernp: From floods to fire season: Fire danger is currently EXTREME"
Alberta Environment has issued a flood watch for the Bow River upstream of Canmore
A portion of Minnewanka Loop (lower) will be closed again from August 8-19 for flood repair. Travel clockwise
Closure: Big Horn Campground. Alberta Agriculture and Forestry is currently managing a wildfire in the Eastern Slopes north of Ya Ha Tinda Ranch. No local communities are at risk from the Skeleton wildfire. 
Extended Road Closures: Hwy 1 in @YohoNP and a portion of Hwy 93S in @KootenayNP are closed due to a motor vehicle accident and wildfire activity respectively. Motorists are being detoured via Hwy 3 (Crowsnest Pass)
"As a precautionary measure, area closures and smoke advisories have been put into place. Visit https://bit.ly/2M4zsdV  for more information. Please check back regularly. For more info related to this wildfire visi"
Parks Canada is working with Alberta Wildfire to manage the Siffleur Wilderness Area Wildfire outside of Banff National Park. This fire does not currently pose a risk to visitors or communities.
"Tonight, Banff residents can watch a joint training exercise with @ParksCanada and the Banff Fire Department from 6-10PM, in Banff’s Middle Springs neighbourhood, crews will deploy structural protection and other wildfire suppression equipment. "
"Fit for fire season! @BanffNP’s fire crew aced their Wildfire Fit tests & are physically fit for the demands of fighting fires safely. To start the season, we head to @KootenayNP to help with a prescribed fire this week."
The Verdant Creek Wildfire is currently being held
August 09 Daily Update: Verdant Creek wildfire affecting @BanffNP & @KootenayNP
Parks Canada staff are actively managing a wildfire in @KootenayNP and an area closure remains in place
#TBT to 1 year ago when crews from across the country gathered in Kootenay to help fight the Verdant Creek Wildfire. A big thank you to everyone involved and the communities for their support!
.@ParksCanada continues Forest Fuel Management projects this fall & winter in key locations to reduce wildfire risk to @Banff_Town Map
Parks Canada fire crews successfully conducted a burnout operation on the Snarl Peak wildfire
"Snarl Peak Wildfire Update: Fire activity increased yesterday due to high temperatures, low humidity and high winds."
See smoke? Forest thinning and pile burning is taking place on Mt. Norquay for the rest of the winter to reduce wildfire risks.
In case you wondered what that smoke smell was from. RT @kootenaynp: A recent photo from the Octopus Mountain wildfire
A flood watch has been issued for the Kickinghorse River
Extended Road Closures: Hwy 1 in @YohoNP and a portion of Hwy 93S in @KootenayNP are closed due to a motor vehicle accident and wildfire activity respectively. Motorists are being detoured via Hwy 3 (Crowsnest Pass). All updates via
Parks Canada is actively managing new wildfire starts in Kootenay National Park. Safety is our top priority. Check http://www.DriveBC.ca  and http://www.511.alberta.ca  for potential road closures. Further updates will be provided tomorrow morning.
RT@kootenaynp: Crews are working the Numa Creek Wildfire. Smoke is visible but the road is open
Wildfire information update
Parks Canada is actively managing new wildfire starts in Kootenay National Park. Safety is our top priority. Check http://www.DriveBC.ca  and http://www.511.alberta.ca  for potential road closures. Further updates will be provided tomorrow morning.
#TBT to 1 year ago when crews from across the country gathered in Kootenay to help fight the Verdant Creek Wildfire. A big thank you to everyone involved and the communities for their support
“I am controlling the burning of fuels along the road as part of the Sinclair Prescribed Fire in April 2017. The Sinclair prescribed fire will help increase security of the Columbia Valley in the event of a wildfire.
"September 14th, 2017 Update: The Verdant Creek Wildfire is currently being held"
August 09 Daily Update: Verdant Creek wildfire affecting @BanffNP & @KootenayN
HWY 93 S through @KootenayNP  is closed due to wildfire.
"HWY93 through @KootenayNP is now open.  However, this highway continues to be affected by wildfire, smoke and fire suppression activities."
Verdant Creek Wildfire in @BanffNP & @KootenayN
 Verdant Creek Wildfire in @BanffNP & @KootenayNP 
Although the closure associated with the wildfire in @KootenayNP remains in place. All highways are open
Trails are closed in Verdant Creek @KootenayNP and Egypt Lake and surrounding area of @BanffNP due to wildfir
Stanley Glacier Trail has reopened for fall hiking with a brand new (flood-resistant!) steel truss bridge. #hiking
Update:Crews are working the Numa Creek Wildfire. Smoke is visible but the road is open.
A post flood photo update from Banff! RT@banffnp: See the new gallery from the June flooding in Banff National Park
Smoke is visible from the Numa Creek wildfire along Hwy 93 and in the Bow Valley
Winds have affected the Numa Creek Wildfire.A smoke column is visible from Highway 93S and in the Bow Valley
"Ten years ago, 12% of @KootenayNP burnt during the summer wildfire season. Today, beautiful fireweed flowers here"
"It's International #YouthDay! During the summer, Jasper National Park hires many youth to maintain and rehabilitate vegetation. Through their work, they learn about ecological integrity and how the protection of natural areas helps to combat climate change. Thank you for planting the seeds towards a brighter future!"
"#EndangeredSpeciesDay
Parks staff are taking action to preserve the whitebark pine. This impressive tree provides food and habitat for wildlife, stabilises soil, and regulates snowpack to control its melting into rivers and creeks. Blister rust, mountain pine beetle, climate change and fire suppression have all made life tough for these trees. The good news is that researchers are locating potentially blister rust resistant trees, and are growing their seeds to be replanted in the wild."
"Do you bike to work? Use reusable lunch and coffee containers? Eat locally-sourced food? These are only a few of the ways you #ShowUsYouCare about our national parks, by combating climate change! Grab your smartphone and take a quick video telling us about your favourite park, and what you do to keep it beautiful by combating climate change!"
"Join the count! 
Jasper's annual spring flower count is fast approaching. Between May 25 and 31, you can help collect data to help describe trends over time (climate change). Interested in participating? Join interpreters for a presentation on May 25 and a hike on May 26th, or contact them if you would like a flower count checklist. http://ow.ly/lffmh (Elephants head)"
"Did you know? Earth Hour, Saturday, Mar 23, 8:30pm – 9:30pm (wherever you are), asks individuals, businesses and governments around the world to turn off their lights for one hour to support urgent action on climate change. "
"Where is the smoke coming from? 
Today in Jasper National Park we are experiencing smoke in the air from wildfires across North America and all the way from Europe. There is no active wildfire and no air quality concerns in Jasper National Park. For air quality health index, visit the Environment and Climate Change Canada "
"At this time, there are no wildfires in Jasper National Park.

Intermittent smoke conditions over Jasper National Park are the result of wildfires burning in British Columbia. For smoke and air quality alerts visit: Environment and Climate Change Canada. For smoke forecasting resources check www.weather.gc.ca/firework and www.firesmoke.ca.

A fire ban for Jasper National Park is in effect. Fire danger is rated as extreme. Warm, mostly dry weather is anticipated to continue through the Labour Day weekend keeping the fire danger at extreme.

WHAT YOU NEED TO KNOW
· A fire ban is in effect in Jasper National Park due to the elevated fire danger and to prevent the possibility of human-caused fires. The fire ban prohibits all open fires in Jasper National Park including the townsite, campgrounds and day-use areas. Gas or propane fuelled devices for cooking are permitted, as well as propane fire pits and gas or propane fuelled lanterns. 
· The safety of the public, our crews, park infrastructure and neighbouring lands is always Parks Canada’s number one priority.
· Report any wildfires, illegal campfires or suspicious smoke to Parks Canada Dispatch: 780-852-6155.

FOR CURRENT INFORMATION:
For Jasper: pc.gc.ca/jasperfireupdate For all Parks Canada sites: www.pc.gc.ca/fire-alerts

In the event of a community emergency, the Municipality of Jasper also has resources to help you prepare and to know where to go for information: www.jasper-alberta.com.

To subscribe or unsubscribe to the Jasper National Park fire information update email list, please contact karly.savoy@pc.gc.ca."
"Did you know today is #WorldJumpDay?
Created in 2006, the organization claimed that 600 million people from the western hemisphere would jump simultaneously. They claimed this would move the Earth out of its orbit, and into a new one, one that would not cause global warming. The story was later revealed to be a hoax! 
But hey, it’s fun. JUMP!"
"#WildWednesday
Road construction makes for an added challenge in the daily lives of small terrestrial animals such as ground squirrels. To aid in mitigating the effects of current road paving work in Jasper National Park, our wildlife biologists are tracking the phenology of ground squirrels to ensure that they are kept out of harm’s way #Conservation "
"Curious why the fire ban is in place despite rainfall? 
Even though cooler weather and rain are expected for this week, there has only been an average of 66 mm of rainfall in the park since May 1. It will take almost the same amount of rain over two days to significantly change the moisture of our medium and large fuels (e.g, woody materials, large trees and logs). Small amounts of rain are quickly absorbed or evaporated when followed by warm temperatures and they are not significant to change the moisture of the ground. 
Come prepared with a propane stove for your cooking needs on your camping getaway or picnic! Stay informed by visiting our website"
"Excelsior Wildfire Update
Great news! Today, Parks Canada Fire Crew was able to map the Excelsior Wildfire and determined the actual size to be approximately 1000 hectares. Until now, the visibility due to smoke and extreme behaviour was too poor for mapping and the fire was estimated at 5000 hectares. It is not uncommon for estimates to be higher as they are based on straight lines and geographical features. 
Based on recent precipitation, the weather forecast and fire suppression actions, fire specialists do not anticipate significant fire growth over the next few days. Keep up the good work Fire Crew!"
"Parks Canada is currently responding to a Wildfire in the Maligne Valley area North of Medicine Lake in Jasper National Park. For public safety, Maligne Lake road is now closed and visitors in the Maligne Valley are being evacuated. 
RCMP and Parks Canada are flagging the traffic on Highway 16 and Maligne Lake Road intersection, expect delays. We thank you in advance for your patience"
"The fire ban in Jasper National Park, as well as the Municipality of Jasper, has been lifted. Recent precipitation and cooler temperatures have reduced the fire danger to low. 
Thank you for your cooperation and support throughout this wildfire season. You can visit our website for more fire information at http://parkscanada.gc.ca/jasperfireupdate"
"#WildWednesday
The 2015 Excelsior wildfire damaged the tree in which the Medicine Lake Bald Eagles nest. To our surprise the eaglet survived the fire and the eagles chose the same tree to nest last year. The eagles are nesting in the same tree again this spring! Every Saturday and Sunday from 1:30 – 3 pm, our park interpreters will be there with a powerful telescope to give you an eagle eye view. http://ow.ly/3SAt30kkFeP"
"#WildWednesday

One week after the Excelsior Wildfire came to life, a fire crew supervisor from Ontario noticed new grasses growing in the burned area. The opened canopy allows sunlight to reach the blackened forest floor, which absorbs heat well. The burned vegetation has now been recycled into a nutrient-rich ash that acts like fertilizer. This means perfect conditions for seeds and root systems left unburned and seeds brought by wind to quickly germinate. Grasses, and plants like fireweed come up first; with shrubs and herbaceous plants quickly following after. Sun-loving tree seedlings like pine, aspen and other poplars may also begin to grow. Bears and other wildfire thrive on this new, nutritious growth. The dead trees left behind will soon provide habitat for a wide variety of insects and birds."
"Excelsior Wildfire Update
Yesterday, fire crews made progress toward containing the northern end of the fire (closest to the Athabasca Valley). Today, crews and equipment continue to work on the ground, supported by helicopters bucketing water, to contain priority areas. Fire specialists expect favourable weather through the end of the week to advance ground efforts. The fire is still considered out of control and is being actioned in a prioritized fashion. A National Incident Management Team is coordinating the work of approximately 70 fire line personnel, 6 helicopters, high volume sprinklers and other equipment to contain this fire.

Parks Canada is a leader in fire management. Our first priority is to ensure the safety of the public and fire personnel, and protect infrastructure for the duration of the Excelsior Wildfire. We are working hard to minimize the fire’s impact to visitors, and appreciate your patience and understanding while we work to manage this fire.

Air quality has improved thanks to recent weather conditions. There is still significant wildfire activity in Western Canada and changing weather patterns may result in localized smoke. Please take this into consideration, especially if you have any existing respiratory concerns."
"Excelsior Creek Wildfire Update
Reported at 3:30 this afternoon, the fire is approximately 15 km south of the town of Jasper and is currently moving South in the Maligne Valley, away from the townsite. Lightning is currently the suspected cause of the fire. The fire has likely been smouldering underground since the strike, and the recent hot, dry conditions brought it to life. Photo taken at 7:10pm"
"Excelsior Wildfire Update
A little more rain and cooler temperatures are good news for the fire team in Jasper. These favourable weather conditions will allow fire suppression activities to continue today with heli-bucketing and ground crews working to extinguish priority areas of the Excelsior Wildfire. 
Forest conditions remain dry and with recent lightning activity, Parks Canada’s Initial Attack crew continue to monitor all areas of Jasper National Park for any smoke or fire activity. Air quality is improving thanks to recent weather conditions and forecasted weather should mean reduced levels of smoke over the next few days. There is however still the potential for localized smoke. Please take this into consideration when planning your trip, especially if you have any existing respiratory concerns"
#DYK that regeneration after a July 9-27 wildfire is already starting at Medicine Lake? All areas of the Maligne Valley are now open including the Watchtower trail and the Medicine Lake viewpoints so you can check it out for yourself! You can also learn more by visiting the Parks Canada Fire Information trailer at Maligne Lake
#DYK that regeneration after a July 9-27 wildfire is already starting at Medicine Lake? All areas of the Maligne Valley are now open including the Watchtower trail and the Medicine Lake viewpoints so you can check it out for yourself! You can also learn more by visiting the Parks Canada Fire Information trailer at Maligne Lake
"Get a bird’s-eye view of the Excelsior Wildfire in the Maligne Valley. 
Fire crew is making progress toward containing the northern end of the fire (closest to the Athabasca Valley). "
"Excelsior Wildfire Update
The fire team in Jasper National Park continues to work on suppression of the Excelsior Wildfire. Cooler weather enabled crews and equipment to get out on the ground for the first time yesterday. 
Fire specialists hope for continued favorable weather conditions over the next few days to allow for further suppression operations on the ground."
"Excelsior Wildfire Update
The fire team in Jasper National Park continues to work on suppression of the Excelsior Wildfire. Cooler weather enabled crews and equipment to get out on the ground for the first time yesterday. 
Fire specialists hope for continued favorable weather conditions over the next few days to allow for further suppression operations on the ground."
"Excelsior Wildfire Update

Fire crews, with the help of favourable weather conditions, have secured the perimeter of the fire and no hot spots have been detected in the last four days. On-going monitoring and patrols of the area will continue.

Effective Tuesday, July 28th, all areas of the Maligne Valley will be open including Watchtower Trail and the Medicine Lake viewpoints.

Please travel safely! 
• Watch for falling trees and rockfall 
• Stop only in roadside pull outs 
• Respect the 60 km/hr speed limit

To find out more about fire in Jasper National Park and the Excelsior Wildfire, stop by the fire information trailer at Maligne Lake.

Thank you for your understanding, patience and cooperation during recent closures and fire management operations."
"Interested in mountain pine beetle and wildfire preparedness? Join Jasper National Park at the Annual Public Forum on Wednesday, March 13 at the Sawridge Inn & Conference Centre at 6:45 pm to connect with us! "
"Interested in mountain pine beetle and wildfire preparedness? Join Jasper National Park at the Annual Public Forum on Wednesday, March 13 at the Sawridge Inn & Conference Centre at 6:45 pm to connect with us! "
This wildfire is sucking the oxygen from ahead of it creating a wind which is blowing the trees toward the fire.
"#FridaysonFire Interested in learning more about fire? Check out our podcast on the 40 days of fighting the Syncline Ridge wildfire. There are also plenty of other fiery podcasts to choose from including the history of fire, smoke and the FireSmart-FireWise project in Jasper"
"We’re all keeping an eye on the Excelsior Wildfire, even the Canada Geese. Have a good night from our Jasper Fire Management Team. For the latest updates on Jasper National Park wildfire"
"The Jasper Fire Crew is laying ground work for prescribed burns on the Pyramid Bench west of the Jasper townsite and in the Fiddle River area near the East Gate this fall. The burns will reduce the danger of wildfire, improve the health of our forests and grasslands, and reduce the mountain pine beetle habitat."
Excelsior Wildfire Update Park Canada’s Fire Team in @JasperNP continues to work toward extinguishing a wildfire in the Maligne Valley. Maligne Road and area trails are closed but the rest of the park remains open! 
"Great working with you on the Fiddle West prescribed fire in Jasper National Park this week, Alberta Wildfire!"
"Parks Canada fire crew and the Jasper Fire Department responded to a small fire associated with illegal camping near the Jasper townsite (Pyramid Bench) around 3:00 pm this afternoon. The fire is contained and under control. The fire crew continues to manage the site.

Fire danger rating in the park remains high. A fire ban is in place in Jasper National Park and in the townsite. All open fires are strictly prohibited in Jasper National Park.

For up to date information about wildfires and fire bans in Alberta and British Columbia, air quality, road conditions, and how to prepare your family for a wildfire"
"Excelsior Wildfire Update
Crews and equipment continue working to extinguish priority areas of the Excelsior Wildfire. Additional resources will arrive today and tomorrow to support fire suppression activities.

Parks Canada recognizes that the Maligne Valley is an important area to visitors and stakeholders, and is working hard to minimize impacts. In the meantime, many other Jasper adventures await.

To ensure public safety, the Maligne Road is closed after 6th Bridge. The 6th Bridge Day Use Area remains open as well as Lakes Edith and Annette; Trail 7 is open from the junction with trail 7g to Old Fort Point as well as Wabasso Trail to the lake and Valley of the Five Lakes Trails.

For wildfire information:
- call the Wildfire Info Phone line at 780-852-3311 
- visit the Wildfire Information Booth at the Heritage Firehall, behind the Information Centre, open 9am to 5pm daily and 7pm to 9pm, Wed - Sun.
- visit parkscanada.gc.ca/jasper and click on: “Important Information on Excelsior Wildfire"
"REMINDER
Wild Jasper presents: ''The Excelsior Wildfire'' this Wednesday on November 18th at 7:00 PM at the Jasper Royal Canadian Legion.

Join Parks Canada Fire and Vegetation Specialist and Municipality of Jasper Fire Chief for an in-depth look at fire ignition and behaviour, extinguishment, how you can be prepared for future wildfires and more. Hope to see you there!"
"Coming soon! The Jasper Fire Crew is laying ground work for prescribed burns on the Pyramid Bench west of the Jasper townsite and in the Fiddle River area near the East Gate this fall. The burns will reduce the danger of wildfire, improve the health of our forests and grasslands, and reduce the mountain pine beetle habitat"
"Fire specialists are protecting the community of Jasper from wildfire. Weather and forest conditions have aligned to allow operations on small-scale prescribed fires on Pyramid Bench. Burning will likely take place along Jasper’s community fireguard over the next 4-5 days, as conditions permit. Fires will be surrounded by sprinkler systems and extinguished at the end of each day. No trail closures are in place, but there could be short delays."
"A reminder that #JasperNP fire crews are preparing for #prescribedburns on the Bench and in the Fiddle River area early this fall. The burns will reduce the danger of wildfire to the public, improve the health of our forests and grasslands, and reduce the mountain pine beetle habitat"
"Save the date! You are invited to the Jasper National Park Annual Public Forum on Tuesday, March 13, 2018. Join us to hear the Superintendent’s Year in Review presentation and to discuss Mountain Pine Beetle and Wildfire Preparedness"
"Jasper National Park's Fire Management Team is gearing up to carry out the Patricia Lake prescribed fire on Pyramid Bench behind town as early as next week. We’ll see smoke, but it will go far to help protect Jasper from wildfire! This is part one of six in the Bench Lakes Complex prescribed fire"
"#FridaysonFire Fire Crews are using a technique called ""helicopter bucketing"" to suppress the Excelsior Wildfire. Helicopter pilots are filling up the 200 to 1000-litre buckets in Medicine Lake and dumping the water in the northern end of the fire (closest to the Athabasca Valley)."
"It’still fire season! JNP’s Fire Management Team is responding to a small wildfire high on a slope in the Whirlpool Valley, 26 km south of town. Likely cause is a lightning strike over a week ago!"
The last significant wildfire in the Maligne Valley was in 2003.
#FridaysonFire Congratulations to the Lake Edith residents of #JasperNP–they have become Alberta's first FireSmart designated community ! These cottage residents have made their community a safer place to live by taking action to prepare and protect their homes against the threat of wildfire. Go to www.firesmartcanada.ca to learn what you can do at home.
"Fire Updates: Too windy to safely and successfully burn in the Vine Cr. Prescribed fire unit in @Jasper NP yesterday. Meanwhile, Mt. Edith Cavell Wildfire still taking its natural course, but fire growth very small. Here’s how it looked on Sunday."
"Fire up the passion in 5 easy steps! Valentine’s Day in Jasper NP
Step 5: Keep the embers burning with a night that inspires a lifetime of memories. As the day’s adventures flicker to an end, turn up the heat of your romance in the ambiance of a rustic cabin or elegant cottage-style lodge. Whether staying in town or in a secluded venue just out of town, Jasper offers up just the right mix of wilderness and extravagance to keep the fires smouldering. From the wildfire fling to the everlasting flame of true love, build a burning romance in Jasper National Park this Valentine’s Day."
"Wild Wednesday
The benefits of restoring the natural process of fire to our landscape pay off for decades. Prescribed fire safely restores and maintains quality habitat for animals like elk, sheep, deer, wolves and bears. It also plays an important role in renewing the forest, keeping it healthy and better able to fend off insects and disease like the mountain pine beetle. By reducing the unatural build-up of forest fuels, prescribed fire also reduces the threat of wildfire to communities and neighbouring lands. Parks Canada has been working to reintroduce this important process in our fire prone parks since the 1980s. (Vine Creek Fireguard earlier this Spring)"
"#FridaysonFire
Woodpeckers love fire! The animals and plants of @Jasper NP have evolved with #wildfire for thousands of years and they are well adapted to it. After a fire, woodpecker populations can increase up to 50 times! They come to feast on bark beetles and other insects that colonize the newly burned trees"
"An Extreme weekend in @JasperNP! The fire team put out 2 wildfires in the NW corner of the park to protect important habitat of threatened woodland caribou. While fire is an essential part of forest health, protecting habitat for Species at Risk is a priority. Fire Danger remains Extreme."
"#fridaysonfire The elimination of natural fires in #JasperNP for much of the 1900's resulted in an unnatural build-up of forest fuels. Today, #wildfires have the potential to burn very intensely and can be less rejuvenating to forests and grasslands than in the past."
"Can you feel the sun's warmth? With longer daylight hours and with the leaves not yet out, most of that warmth is reaching the ground and drying out last year's grasses. The fire danger rating is currently elevated as a result of this typical ""spring dip"" in plant moisture. Until those plants start to green up and gain their leaves back, remember to use fire responsibly:
• Campfires must be kept small and only in designated fire pits or boxes.
• Completely extinguish your campfire with water. Soak it, stir it, and soak it again until it is cool to the touch before leaving it.
• Dispose of cigarettes in proper containers."
"The smoke Jasper National Park is experiencing from the BC Wildfires serves as a reminder about the natural threats associated with visiting and living in a forested community.

The safety of the public, our staff, park infrastructure and neighbouring lands is always Parks Canada’s number one priority.

Currently, there are no wildfires burning in Jasper National Park. There are daily helicopter smoke patrols taking place to check for lightning strikes or ignition of fires, and we have an initial attack crew that is available to respond to any fires that we detect.

On a regional level resources, such as fire fighters and helicopters are shared locally throughout the Mountain National Parks and we work closely with the Town of Jasper.

Remember that fires are only permitted in designated fire pits and should be kept small. Visitors should completely extinguish the campfire with water before leaving them and cigarettes need be disposed of in appropriate receptacles."
"Grade 4 students from Banff Elementary School, with the help of our Minister of Environment & Climate Change, Honourable Catherine McKenna, painted colourful bison. Check out the perfect spot we found to hang them!"
Excited to welcome the Minister of Environment and Climate Change to the Birthplace of Canada's national parks in Banff National Park to announce new investments
"Current hot and dry weather conditions have led to increased smoke from active wildfires across British Columbia. As temperatures cool overnight in Glacier National Park, smoke from these fires may be pushed down and affect air quality and visibility along the transportation corridor. For smoke and air quality alerts visit: Environment and Climate Change Canada"
"August 04, 2017 Update: Verdant Creek wildfire - Reminders for August long weekend

Highway 93 South through Kootenay National Park continues to be affected by wildfire, smoke and fire suppression activities and may be subject to temporary closures to ensure the safety of the public. Check www.DriveBC.ca and www.alberta511.ca for possible temporary closures, alternate routes and the most up-to-date information.

A fire ban remains in effect in Banff, Yoho and Kootenay national parks due to the elevated fire danger and to prevent the possibility of human-caused fires.

Additional areas have been closed proactively for the safety of the public, to reduce the potential for additional fires and to facilitate fire operations. Most recently, the Hawk Creek and Ball Pass areas have been closed, and starting Saturday, August 5, the southern portion of the Rockwall Trail will be closed. Please check here for the existing area closures: www.parkscanada.gc.ca/verdant-fire

Current air quality information can help residents and visitors plan their activities. Here are links to air quality advisories and more information:
• Alberta: www.albertahealthservices.ca/news/Page1926.aspx
• British Columbia: http://www2.gov.bc.ca/…/air-…/air/air-quality/air-advisories
• Environment and Climate Change Canada: http://www.ec.gc.ca/cas-aqhi/default.asp….

The safety of the public, our crews, park infrastructure and neighbouring lands is Parks Canada’s first priority. Fire and weather conditions can change quickly, and everyone should stay informed and check for updates."
"We're loving the faster, low-emission trail groomer in Lake Louise. 50 km of fast tracks and beautiful corduroy on 11 trails in the area."
"The smoke column which is currently visible in the Bow Valley is coming from the southern perimeter of the Verdant Creek wildfire. Parks Canada fire management specialists remain confident that the Verdant Creek wildfire is not a threat to local communities.

Warmer temperatures will continue to produce increased fire activity along the remote southern boundary of the Verdant Creek fire.

Smoke from wildfires may impact road conditions and transportation corridors. Depending on weather conditions, motorists may experience reduced visibility due to smoke. Check www.DriveBC.ca and www.alberta511.ca for the most up-to-date information on road conditions"
"This fall, Parks Canada fire crews will be modifying the forest at select locations in Banff National Park to FireSmart standards.

In partnership with outside agencies, Parks Canada has played a strong role in developing and implementing FireSmart community protection programs throughout the National Parks. Some communities within the national parks are surrounded by forests, which may be susceptible to wildfire. Fire suppression alone may not be successful in the urban interface and Parks Canada is working with communities to reduce fire risk through education, prevention and mitigation. By modifying the forest around facilities, Parks Canada can help mitigate potential damage to communities from wildfire."
"Verdant Creek fire update: The Parks Canada incident management team is actively managing a wildfire in Kootenay National Park and Mount Assiniboine Provincial Park. The fire remains on the west side of the Continental Divide, approximately 24 km from the Town of Banff and approximately 2.5 km from Sunshine Village. The fire is not currently threatening any local communities.

Except for the closure areas, all facilities in Banff and Kootenay national Parks remain open, and there are many backcountry destinations for visitors to explore. All highways in Banff and Kootenay national parks remain open.

The fire has spread along the west slopes of the continental divide in Mt Assiniboine Provincial Park across the Continental Divide from the headwaters of Brewster Creek drainage. As a precautionary measure, the Banff backcountry area closure will now include the Fatigue Creek and Brewster Creek valley."
"The smoke column which is currently visible in the Bow Valley is coming from the southern perimeter of the Verdant Creek wildfire. Parks Canada fire management specialists remain confident that the Verdant Creek wildfire is not a threat to local communities.

Warmer temperatures will continue to produce increased fire activity along the remote southern boundary of the Verdant Creek fire.

Smoke from wildfires may impact road conditions and transportation corridors. Depending on weather conditions, motorists may experience reduced visibility due to smoke. Check www.DriveBC.ca and www.alberta511.ca for the most up-to-date information on road conditions"
"A wildfire near Warden Lake in Banff National Park of Canada is being fought by Parks Canada fire crews and provincial firefighters from Alberta. The fire was reported on the evening of July 3 at 9:00 pm. At present, it is approximately 500 hectares in size.

At this time, there is no immediate threat to people or facilities in, or adjacent to, the park. No evacuations are being contemplated, and all park operations are running normally.
The following closures are in effect:
• Warden lake trail, and
• North Saskatchewan River from the Highway 93N bridge to the Banff National Park east boundary."
"Visibility on Highway 93 South through Kootenay National Park and the Trans-Canada Highway (HWY 1) through Banff National Park is being affected by wildfire smoke and fire suppression activities.

Highways will remain open as long as safe driving conditions can be maintained. If smoke settles or thickens in the valley bottom, motorists should expect speed reductions, flagging personnel and pilot vehicles to ensure safe passage.

The safety of the public, our crews, park infrastructure and neighbouring lands is Parks Canada’s first priority. Fire and weather conditions can change quickly and the public is encouraged to stay informed and check for updates before heading through the park."
Parks Canada is actively managing new wildfire starts in Kootenay National Park. Safety is our top priority. Check www.DriveBC.ca and www.511.alberta.ca for potential road closures. Further updates will be provided tomorrow morning.
"Parks Canada continues to actively manage the Verdant Creek Wildfire and crews have made good progress to keep the fire from spreading in priority areas. Our fire management specialists are confident in our actions and that the fire is not a risk to communities in the Bow Valley.

The operational closure of Sunshine Village will no longer be required and has been lifted: the Sunshine Road, gondola, Standish Chairlift and Upper Village facilities are open. The hiking trails in Sunshine Village remain closed.

Parks Canada will also re-open a portion of Brewster Creek area, but the Fatigue Creek and Citadel Pass trails remain closed."
"Parks Canada fire management specialists remain confident that the Verdant Creek wildfire is not a threat to local communities.

To manage the spread of the fire to the southwest in Kootenay National Park, Parks Canada is planning a “burn out” operation near Mount Shanks today, if weather conditions and fire behavior permit.

A burn out is a fire suppression operation where fire is set along the inside edge of a control line or natural barrier to consume unburned fuel between the line and the fire perimeter, thereby reinforcing the existing line and speeding up the control effort. This technique is only carried out if conditions permit. The safety of the public, our crews, park infrastructure and neighbouring lands is Parks Canada’s first priority.

Smoke from wildfires may impact road conditions and transportation corridors. Depending on weather conditions, motorists may experience reduced visibility due to smoke. Check www.DriveBC.ca and www.alberta511.ca for the most up-to-date information on road conditions."
"Parks Canada fire management specialists are confident that the fire is not a risk to communities in the Bow Valley.

The fire is still active. Depending on wind direction, smoke may continue for a few days, and may settle into valleys overnight.

All facilities in Banff and Kootenay National Parks are open, except for the area closures."
"Parks Canada is working with Alberta Wildfire to manage the Siffleur Wilderness Area Wildfire outside of Banff National Park. This fire does not currently pose a risk to visitors or communities.

As a precautionary measure, area closures and smoke advisories have been put into place."
"Highway 93 through Kootenay National Park is now open. However, this highway continues to be affected by wildfire, smoke and fire suppression activities. Check www.DriveBC.ca and www.alberta511.ca for possible temporary closures, alternate routes and the most up-to-date information."
"Parks Canada continues to actively manage the Verdant Creek Wildfire and crews have made good progress to keep the fire from spreading in priority areas. Our fire management specialists are confident in our actions and that the fire is not a risk to communities in the Bow Valley.

As of Monday, July 24th, the operational closure of Sunshine Village will no longer be required and will be lifted: the Sunshine Road, gondola and Upper Village facilities will be open, but the hiking trails in Sunshine Village remain closed.

Parks Canada appreciates Sunshine Village’s on-going cooperation and assistance to facilitate the management of the Verdant Creek wildfire.

The BC Wildfire Service are taking management actions for the parts of the fire in Mount Assiniboine Provincial Park that relate to their primary values at risk. "
"The wildfire in Verdant Creek area of Kootenay National Park has grown since it was first detected on July 15. Parks Canada staff, with contracted helicopters, are actively managing the fire. The area closure in Kootenay and Banff national parks remains in place until further notice. However, the following facilities in the area remain open at this time: Sunshine Village and its summer use trails, Shadow Lake Lodge, other tourism operations, the Hawk Creek Trail to Ball Pass and Redearth Trail to Ball Pass remain open at this time.

Parks Canada Crews are also managing small wildfires in the Emerald Lake and Amiskwi areas of Yoho National Park. There are no associated area closures at this time."
"As of Wednesday, August 9th, the Sunshine Gondola, Upper Village facilities and Standish Chair are open. Hiking trails in the Sunshine Meadows and the Sunshine Village areas remain closed.

Additional areas may be closed proactively for the safety of the public, to reduce the potential for additional fires and to facilitate fire operations"
"The wildfire in Verdant Creek area of Kootenay National Park has grown since it was first detected on July 15. Parks Canada staff, with contracted helicopters, are actively managing the fire. The area closure in Kootenay and Banff national parks remains in place until further notice. However, the following facilities in the area remain open at this time: Sunshine Village and its summer use trails, Shadow Lake Lodge, other tourism operations, the Hawk Creek Trail to Ball Pass and Redearth Trail to Ball Pass remain open at this time.

Parks Canada Crews are also managing small wildfires in the Emerald Lake and Amiskwi areas of Yoho National Park. There are no associated area closures at this time"
"The Verdant Creek Wildfire is currently being held. Recent cooler temperatures and precipitation allowed the crews working directly on the fire’s edge to make significant progress. Parks Canada will continue to actively monitor the Verdant Creek wildfire using helicopters and ground crews.

A fire ban remains in effect in Banff, Yoho and Kootenay national parks. Changes in the fire ban will occur when it is safe to do so and will be communicated with the public when they are in effect.

Parks Canada extends its thanks for your cooperation, patience and support throughout the Verdant Creek wildfire"
"Closure: Big Horn Campground
? Alberta Agriculture and Forestry is currently managing a wildfire in the Eastern Slopes north of Ya Ha Tinda Ranch.
? No local communities are at risk from the Skeleton wildfire.
? The safety of the public, crews, infrastructure and neighbouring lands is Parks Canada’s top priority"
"The wildfire in Verdant Creek area of Kootenay National Park has grown since it was first detected on July 15. Parks Canada staff, with contracted helicopters, are actively managing the fire. The area closure in Kootenay and Banff national parks remains in place until further notice. However, the following facilities in the area remain open at this time: Sunshine Village and its summer use trails, Shadow Lake Lodge, other tourism operations, the Hawk Creek Trail to Ball Pass and Redearth Trail to Ball Pass remain open at this time.

Parks Canada Crews are also managing small wildfires in the Emerald Lake and Amiskwi areas of Yoho National Park. There are no associated area closures at this time."
"As a key step in the ongoing, collaborative wildfire protection for Banff National Park, Parks Canada is planning a large, multi-year fuel reduction project on the west side of Sulphur Mountain. This will be accomplished by thinning the forest; pruning individual trees to remove lower branches that can act as a ladder for a fire, and removing downed woody debris. Reducing forest fuels will help to lower the intensity and complexity of managing any potential wildfire in the area.

From May 9 – June 25, 2018, Parks Canada invites you to review the plan and let us know if there are any impacts we may have missed or not fully considered."
Fit for fire season! Banff National Park’s fire crew aced their Wildfire Fit test and are off to Kootenay National Park to help with a prescribed fire this week. These tests are done to ensure their safety and wellness to meet the rigorous demands of working on a fire line. The test mimics the demanding tasks such as carrying heavy equipment in challenging terrain.
"Recent precipitation and cooler temperatures have slowed the spread of the fire and allowed crews to continue to work directly on the fire’s edge. The fire does not directly threaten any local communities or the Bow and Columbia valleys.

A fire ban remains in effect in Banff, Yoho and Kootenay national parks to prevent the possibility of human-caused fires. Despite recent rain, forests are still very dry. Warm and dry weather anticipated in the coming days will return fire danger to high or extreme."
"Our fire management specialists are confident in our actions and that the fire is not a risk to communities in the Bow Valley. The fire remains on the west side of the Continental Divide, approximately 24 km from the Town of Banff and approximately 2.5 km from Sunshine Village.

As of Monday, July 24th the operational closure of Sunshine Village will no longer be required and will be lifted. The Sunshine Road, gondola and Upper Village facilities will be open. Hiking trails in the Sunshine Village area remain closed. A fire ban remains in effect in Banff and Kootenay National Parks due to the elevated fire danger and to prevent the possibility of human-caused fires.

The BC Wildfire Service is taking management actions for parts of the fire in Mount Assiniboine Provincial Park that relate to their infrastructure. For more information: www.bcwildfire.ca

The safety of the public and our crews, and protecting park infrastructure and neighbouring lands is Parks Canada's first priority."
"Parks Canada is actively managing the Verdant Creek wildfire. The fire does not directly threaten any local communities or the Bow and Columbia valleys. Visitors and residents should expect increased smoke as temperatures rise. Parks Canada continues to work to contain this fire with crews and helicopters bucketing.

Highway 93 South through Kootenay National Park continues to be affected by wildfire, smoke and fire suppression activities and may be subject to temporary closures to ensure the safety of the public. Check www.DriveBC.ca and www.alberta511.ca for closures, alternate routes and the most up-to-date information."
"The wildfire in Verdant Creek area of Kootenay National Park has grown since it was first detected on July 15. Parks Canada staff, with contracted helicopters, are actively managing the fire. The area closure in Kootenay and Banff national parks remains in place until further notice. However, the following facilities in the area remain open at this time: Sunshine Village and its summer use trails, Shadow Lake Lodge, other tourism operations, the Hawk Creek Trail to Ball Pass and Redearth Trail to Ball Pass remain open at this time.

Parks Canada Crews are also managing small wildfires in the Emerald Lake and Amiskwi areas of Yoho National Park. There are no associated area closures at this time."
"Today's warmer temperatures and change in wind direction will produce increased fire activity in the Verdant Creek wildfire in Kootenay National Park and other wildfires in BC.

The Verdant Creek wildfire is not a threat to the Bow or Columbia Valleys. There is increased smoke in the area, which may affect visibility along highways through and adjacent to Banff and Kootenay national parks. Travellers should check Drive BC and AB 511 for possible temporary closures, alternate routes and the most up-to-date information.

Crews continue to work to contain the spread of the fire. The safety of the public, our crews, park infrastructure and neighbouring lands remains Parks Canada’s first priority.

A fire ban remains in effect in Banff, Yoho and Kootenay national parks due to the elevated fire danger and to prevent the possibility of human-caused fires."
#TBT to 1 year ago when crews from across the country gathered in Kootenay National Park to help fight the Verdant Creek Wildfire. A big thank you to everyone involved and to the communities for the support throughout the 2017 fire season
"Reducing the accumulation of forest vegetation lowers the risk of wildland fire to facilities and the Town of Banff.

Parks Canada works very closely with the Town of Banff Fire Department to coordinate fuel management projects, emergency response planning and wildfire management.

This fall and winter, Parks Canada fire personnel will selectively remove trees, downed woody debris and limbing trees in the Fenland, Valley View and Golf Course areas near the Town of Banff.

Impacts of this work will include some noise and temporary closures. Debris from these operations will be burned on site or removed for disposal.

Removal of wood without a permit is unlawful. Debris pile burning will be planned during good venting conditions.
For the Valley View location only, residents of the Town of Banff may apply for a permit to collect pre-cut firewood. Permits will be issued at the Banff Warden Office, 216 Hawk Ave."
"Snarl Peak Wildfire Update: Fire activity increased yesterday due to high temperatures, low humidity and high winds. "
"The Parks Canada fire management team continues to cooperatively manage the Verdant Creek wildfire jointly with BC Parks and BC Wildfire Service. Recent smoke visible in the Bow Valley and Highway 93S is coming from this fire and wildfires elsewhere in British Columbia.

The Verdant Creek wildfire remains on the west side of the Continental Divide in a remote area and fire management specialists remain confident that the fire is not a risk to local communities. The safety of the public, our crews, park infrastructure and neighbouring lands is always Parks Canada’s first priority. Smoke may affect visibility along highways through and adjacent to Banff and Kootenay national parks. Check Drive BC and AB 511 for up to date information."
"Tonight, Banff residents can watch a joint training exercise with Parks Canada and the Banff Fire Department. From 6 to 10 PM, in Banff’s Middle Springs neighbourhood, crews will deploy structural protection and other wildfire suppression equipment. Parking is limited, so please walk, bike or take Roam public transit."
"The Parks Canada incident management team is actively managing the Verdant Creek wildfire. The fire does not directly threaten any communities at this time, however visitors and residents will continue to see smoke as temperatures increase. The fire remains on the West side of the Continental Divide. The fire is approximately 11,000 hectares in size.

A shift in wind direction on August 1 permitted Parks Canada fire management crews to carry out direct fire suppression work on the northern side of the fire using air and ground crews. Parks Canada will continue to directly suppress the northern side of the fire as weather permits.

Increased fire activity on the southwest side of the fire has resulted in heavy smoke in the transportation corridor along Highway 93S. The highway has been temporarily closed for public safety. Parks Canada will continue to monitor the situation. Check www.DriveBC.ca and www.alberta511.ca for alternate routes and the most up-to-date information.

In addition to the closures already in place, a proactive closure in the Brewster Creek area drainage will be implemented. The closure will be put in place as a precaution to minimize the risk of potential new fire starts in the backcountry"
"Verdant Creek fire update: Parks Canada is actively managing a fire that began in Verdant Creek drainage of Kootenay National Park on Saturday, July 15, and has since grown and spread into Mount Assiniboine Provincial Park. Parks Canada’s first priority is safety of the public and our crews. We wish to reassure the public that Bow Valley communities are not at risk at this time and that Parks Canada is working to contain the wildfire.

As a preventative measure, to protect nearby values at risk, an area closure was implemented and has been expanded today. All trails at Sunshine Village are now closed; however the village and the gondola remain open.

The highways and frontcountry campgrounds in Banff and Kootenay National Park remain open."
"Have you ever been to Skoki Ski Lodge National Historic Site? Next time you visit you may notice the hard work of fire crews. This fall, they pruned and thinned the forest next to buildings. This work is part of a FireSmart project to reduce the threat of wildfire to residential and commercial developments within the park. Crews return regularly to areas like these throughout Banff, Kootenay and Yoho national parks to maintain and improve on work that has been underway since 2003."
"Lightning ignites a fire during hot, dry summer conditions. On July 7, the Spreading Creek wildfire was burning on the boundary of Banff National Park and the province of Alberta near Saskatchewan Crossing."
"Parks Canada crews began burning off fuel to control the fire. Burnouts are used to contain a wildfire. Fire managers carefully ignite fire along the inside edge of a control line (e.g. river, stream, highway, etc.) to consume unburned fuel between the control line and the edge of the fire. This is known as an “indirect” technique."
"Watch for forest thinning and pile burning on the lower slopes of Mt. Norquay for the rest of the winter. Thinning, limbing and removing built-up vegetation can slow an approaching wildfire. Personnel are reducing fuel in specially identified areas like this one to protect the town of Banff from wildfire."
"This fall, Parks Canada fire crews will be modifying the forest at select locations in Banff National Park to FireSmart standards.

In partnership with outside agencies, Parks Canada has played a strong role in developing and implementing FireSmart community protection programs throughout the National Parks. Some communities within the national parks are surrounded by forests, which may be susceptible to wildfire. Fire suppression alone may not be successful in the urban interface and Parks Canada is working with communities to reduce fire risk through education, prevention and mitigation. By modifying the forest around facilities, Parks Canada can help mitigate potential damage to communities from wildfire."
"New life is already returning to the burned area! Vegetation re-growth appeared less than one month after the Spreading Creek Wildfire.

In the end, careful management enabled Parks Canada to support Canada's National Conservation Plan by facilitating the restoration of an ecosystem and contributing to the conservation of Canada’s lands and waters, while keeping people and property safe.

Within a year, lodgepole pine seedlings will emerge, and we expect to see grizzly bears, ungulates and other wildlife in this new habitat. The cleared, open forest will continue to serve as a fireguard for the Saskatchewan Crossing Resort and Parks Canada facilities in future years."
"The Parks Canada incident management team is actively managing a wildfire in Kootenay National Park and Mount Assiniboine Provincial Park. The fire remains on the west side of the Continental Divide, approximately 24 km from the Town of Banff and approximately 2.5 km from Sunshine Village.

The fire has spread further into Mount Assiniboine Provincial Park along the continental divide, and Parks Canada is working closely with BC Parks and BC Wildfire Service to manage the fire. The current perimeter of the fire is approximately 2500-3000 hectares which includes non-forested areas.

The fire has not advanced further towards Simpson Pass, and Parks Canada fire management operations are focused on preventing the spread of the fire in this area.

The Verdant Creek wildfire is currently not a threat to local communities. Except for the closure area, all facilities in Banff and Kootenay national Parks remain open, and there are many backcountry destinations for visitors to explore. All highways in Banff and Kootenay national parks remain open.

WHAT IS HAPPENING FRIDAY, JULY 21ST
Parks Canada has been working closely with Sunshine Village to implement an operational closure of the ski area to visitors as of Friday, July 21 to allow Parks Canada crews to take further action to manage the Verdant Creek wildfire. Sunshine Village will be used as a staging area for activities in the North Simpson valley and Redearth Pass. This phase of work will see more helicopters and crews in the Sunshine Village area and may create additional smoke, therefore it is best that visitors not be in the area for the duration of the work."
"Highway 93 South through Kootenay National Park opened yesterday evening (August 2, 2017). This highway continues to be affected by wildfire, smoke and fire suppression activities and may be subject to temporary closures to ensure the safety of the public. Check www.DriveBC.ca and www.alberta511.ca for possible temporary closures, alternate routes and the most up-to-date information.

As of today, the following additional areas have been closed proactively for the safety of the public, to reduce the potential for additional starts and to facilitate fire operations:

• In Kootenay National Park, the area northwest of the Honeymoon Pass Trail including the Hawk Creek Trail and Kootenay Park Lodge; 
• In Banff National Park, the area to Ball Pass from the junction of Whistling Valley Trail.

As of Saturday, August 5, 2017, the south portion of the Rockwall Trail will be closed from Floe Lake trailhead on Highway 93 South to Tumbling Pass, including Floe Lake and Numa Creek backcountry campgrounds."
"Parks Canada fire crews are making good progress to prevent the spread of the Verdant wildfire in the key locations of Talc Lake and Simpson Pass. The fire remains on the west side of the Continental Divide, approximately 24 km from the Town of Banff and approximately 2.5 km from Sunshine Village.

The fire has shown little growth over the past 48 hours to the southeast. It is not currently threatening any local communities.

On July 21, conditions allowed Parks Canada fire management personnel to map the perimeter of the fire and determined it is approximately 4100 ha. Prior to that mapping flight, it was difficult to accurately ascertain the size because of smoke impeding visibility.

The Parks Canada incident management team is actively managing a wildfire in Kootenay National Park and Mount Assiniboine Provincial Park. Parks Canada is the lead agency managing this fire, and is working closely with BC Parks and BC Wildfire Service.

The safety of the public and our crews, and protecting park infrastructure and neighbouring lands is Parks Canada's first priority."
"Parks Canada fire management specialists are confident that the fire is not a risk to communities in the Bow Valley.

The fire is still active. Depending on wind direction, smoke may continue for a few days, and may settle into valleys overnight.

All facilities in Banff and Kootenay National Parks are open, except for the area closures."
"Verdant Creek wildfire

Parks Canada fire management specialists are confident that the fire is not a risk to communities in the Bow Valley.

The fire is still active. Depending on wind direction, smoke may continue for a few days, and may settle into valleys overnight.

All facilities in Banff and Kootenay National Parks are open, except for the area closures."
"Verdant Creek wildfire

Parks Canada continues to actively manage the Verdant Creek Wildfire and crews have made good progress to keep the fire from spreading in priority areas. Our fire management specialists are confident in our actions and that the fire is not a risk to communities in the Bow Valley.

The operational closure of Sunshine Village will no longer be required and has been lifted: the Sunshine Road, gondola, Standish Chairlift and Upper Village facilities are open. The hiking trails in Sunshine Village remain closed.

Parks Canada will also re-open a portion of Brewster Creek area, but the Fatigue Creek and Citadel Pass trails remain closed."
"Verdant Creek wildfire

Parks Canada fire management specialists are confident that the fire is not a risk to communities in the Bow Valley.

The fire is still active. Depending on wind direction, smoke may continue for a few days, and may settle into valleys overnight.

All facilities in Banff and Kootenay National Parks are open, except for the area closures."
"Verdant Creek wildfire

Parks Canada fire management specialists are confident that the Verdant Creek wildfire is not a risk to communities in the Bow Valley.

Parks Canada is planning to open trails in the Egypt Lake area, Healy Pass, Sunshine Meadows and Sunshine Village on Wednesday, July 26th.

Smoke associated with the fire in BC may be present in the Bow Valley.

A fire ban remains in effect in all mountain parks due to the elevated fire danger and to prevent the possibility of human-caused fires."
"Verdant Creek wildfire

Parks Canada fire management specialists are confident that the Verdant Creek wildfire is not a risk to communities in the Bow Valley.

Parks Canada is planning to open trails in the Egypt Lake area, Healy Pass, Sunshine Meadows and Sunshine Village on Wednesday, July 26th.

Smoke associated with the fire in BC may be present in the Bow Valley.

A fire ban remains in effect in all mountain parks due to the elevated fire danger and to prevent the possibility of human-caused fires."
"Verdant Creek wildfire

Parks Canada fire management specialists are confident that the Verdant Creek wildfire is not a risk to communities in the Bow Valley.

Parks Canada is planning to open trails in the Egypt Lake area, Healy Pass, Sunshine Meadows and Sunshine Village on Wednesday, July 26th.

Smoke associated with the fire in BC may be present in the Bow Valley.

A fire ban remains in effect in all mountain parks due to the elevated fire danger and to prevent the possibility of human-caused fires."
"Verdant Creek fire update: The Parks Canada incident management team is actively managing a wildfire in Kootenay National Park and Mount Assiniboine Provincial Park. The fire remains on the west side of the Continental Divide, approximately 24 km from the Town of Banff and approximately 2.5 km from Sunshine Village. The fire is not currently threatening any local communities.

Except for the closure areas, all facilities in Banff and Kootenay national Parks remain open, and there are many backcountry destinations for visitors to explore. All highways in Banff and Kootenay national parks remain open.

The fire has spread along the west slopes of the continental divide in Mt Assiniboine Provincial Park across the Continental Divide from the headwaters of Brewster Creek drainage. As a precautionary measure, the Banff backcountry area closure will now include the Fatigue Creek and Brewster Creek valley."
"Verdant Creek Wildfire:

The Parks Canada incident management team is actively managing a wildfire in Kootenay National Park and Mount Assiniboine Provincial Park. The fire remains on the west side of the Continental Divide, approximately 24 km from the Town of Banff and approximately 2.5 km from Sunshine Village.

WHAT YOU NEED TO KNOW:
• The Verdant Creek wildfire is currently not a threat to local communities. 
• The safety of the public, our crews, park infrastructure and neighbouring lands is Parks Canada’s first priority.
• Our fire crews are making good progress and continue to prevent the spread of the Verdant wildfire in key locations.
• All highways in Banff and Kootenay national parks remain open. 
• All facilities in Banff and Kootenay national parks are open, except for the area closures.
• There are many frontcountry and backcountry destinations for visitors to explore. 
• A fire ban is still in effect for all mountain national parks due to the elevated fire danger and to prevent the possibility of human-caused fires."
" Verdant Creek Wildfire:

The Parks Canada incident management team is actively managing a wildfire in Kootenay National Park and Mount Assiniboine Provincial Park. The fire remains on the west side of the Continental Divide, approximately 24 km from the Town of Banff and approximately 2.5 km from Sunshine Village.

WHAT YOU NEED TO KNOW:
• The Verdant Creek wildfire is currently not a threat to local communities. 
• The safety of the public, our crews, park infrastructure and neighbouring lands is Parks Canada’s first priority.
• Our fire crews are making good progress and continue to prevent the spread of the Verdant wildfire in key locations.
• All highways in Banff and Kootenay national parks remain open. 
• All facilities in Banff and Kootenay national parks are open, except for the area closures.
• There are many frontcountry and backcountry destinations for visitors to explore. 
• A fire ban is still in effect for all mountain national parks due to the elevated fire danger and to prevent the possibility of human-caused fires"
"Verdant Creek wildfire

Our fire management specialists are confident in our actions and that the fire is not a risk to communities in the Bow Valley. The fire remains on the west side of the Continental Divide, approximately 24 km from the Town of Banff and approximately 2.5 km from Sunshine Village.

As of Monday, July 24th the operational closure of Sunshine Village will no longer be required and will be lifted. The Sunshine Road, gondola and Upper Village facilities will be open. Hiking trails in the Sunshine Village area remain closed. A fire ban remains in effect in Banff and Kootenay National Parks due to the elevated fire danger and to prevent the possibility of human-caused fires.

The BC Wildfire Service is taking management actions for parts of the fire in Mount Assiniboine Provincial Park that relate to their infrastructure. For more information: www.bcwildfire.ca

The safety of the public and our crews, and protecting park infrastructure and neighbouring lands is Parks Canada's first priority."
" Verdant Creek wildfire

Our fire management specialists are confident in our actions and that the fire is not a risk to communities in the Bow Valley. The fire remains on the west side of the Continental Divide, approximately 24 km from the Town of Banff and approximately 2.5 km from Sunshine Village.

As of Monday, July 24th the operational closure of Sunshine Village will no longer be required and will be lifted. The Sunshine Road, gondola and Upper Village facilities will be open. Hiking trails in the Sunshine Village area remain closed. A fire ban remains in effect in Banff and Kootenay National Parks due to the elevated fire danger and to prevent the possibility of human-caused fires.

The BC Wildfire Service is taking management actions for parts of the fire in Mount Assiniboine Provincial Park that relate to their infrastructure. For more information: www.bcwildfire.ca

The safety of the public and our crews, and protecting park infrastructure and neighbouring lands is Parks Canada's first priority."
Mountains are important to so many people worldwide. The mountain parks are lucky to enjoy protection that other mountain places do not. Happy International Mountain Day!
"You know Henry David Thoreau for his book, Walden. Now, the flowering dates recorded by writers and naturalists, including Thoreau, are shedding light on the impacts of climate change"
"So how do we know this? Researchers take measurements on a set snow course every month. They hike in with a long tube, insert the tube into the snow, measure the snow depth, weigh the tube to determine how much water is in the snow, then repeat 10 times along a set transect to create an average. Why do all this? The data is shared with the province of British Columbia and is used for many purposes, including flood and river forecasting, and to estimate hydroelectric power generation along the Columbia River."
"Wondering just how dry this winter has actually been? Snow Water Equivalence (SWE) tells us how much water is in the snowpack! This year’s 218 mm of snow at our Yoho snow survey site, Kicking Horse, is well below the March average of 248 mm. This information is also important to other agencies such as BC Hydro when planning for flood control and power generation."
Parks Canada is actively managing new wildfire starts in Kootenay National Park. Safety is our top priority. Check www.DriveBC.ca and www.511.alberta.ca for potential road closures. Further updates will be provided tomorrow morning.
"A wildfire near Warden Lake in Banff National Park of Canada is being fought by Parks Canada fire crews and provincial firefighters from Alberta. The fire was reported on the evening of July 3 at 9:00 pm. At present, it is approximately 1585 hectares in size.

At this time, there is no immediate threat to people or facilities in, or adjacent to, the park. No evacuations are being contemplated, and all park operations are running normally.
The following closures are in effect:
• Warden lake trail, and
• North Saskatchewan River from the Highway 93N bridge to the Banff National Park east boundary."
"Are you headed west?

Smoke from wildfires may impact road conditions and transportation corridors. Depending on weather conditions, motorists may experience reduced visibility due to smoke."
"Our fall EI Monitoring student also digitized sightings from a log book of pika sightings at Lake O’Hara this summer. Pikas are very sensitive to climate change. If the treeline moves up in elevation, pikas lose their home. We monitor them to understand how the alpine environment is changing.

Young Canada Works: EI Monitoring"
"Today, Jonathan Wilkinson, Parliamentary Secretary to the Minister of Environment and Climate Change and Member of Parliament for North Vancouver, unveiled an interactive interpretative exhibit, highlighting safe animal crossing structures similar to those found along highways in Canada’s Rocky Mountain national parks. This exhibit will be housed at Science World for the next five years.

Parks Canada and Science World British Columbia are celebrating their partnership through the unveiling of a new, dynamic learn and play structure. Through this innovative exhibit, Science World will bring the animals, plants and ecosystems found in Canada’s Rocky Mountain national parks to youth and families visiting the Telus World of Science in Vancouver.

Kootenay Wildlife Crossings Project on Highway 93 South"
"What could be better than an outdoor classroom? In October, a school group joined Parks Canada vegetation specialists to help plant 250 limber pine on the dry slopes in Kootenay National Park above the village of Radium Hot Springs. Limber pine is a “keystone” species because the seeds provide critical food, cover and shelter for many species of wildlife. Unfortunately, this tree species is threatened throughout its Canadian range by white pine blister rust (an introduced disease), fire suppression, mountain pine beetle, and climate change.

A big thank you to this awesome group of students for helping to give these trees a fighting chance!"
"Parks Canada is conserving and restoring whitebark pine. This incredible tree provides food and habitat for wildlife, stabilizes soil, and regulates snowpack to control melting into rivers and creeks. It is a keystone species for higher elevation ecosystems here, but a combination of blister rust, mountain pine beetle, climate change and fire suppression is making life tough for these beautiful trees."
"""So why is Parks Canada conducting the kind of scientific research that I’m helping with this summer? Well, it’s all part of Ecological Integrity (EI) Monitoring. (Huh?!) Let’s start with the basics. An ecosystem is a group of living things interacting with each other and with their physical environment - like this wetland! Ecological Integrity (EI) Monitoring is like a “check engine light” for ecosystem health. This research helps Parks Canada detect potential problems at an early stage and manage or mitigate accordingly."""
"It's back! Stanley Glacier trail and bridge have re-opened for fall hiking. The new 12 metre (40 foot) steel truss bridge is designed to better withstand flooding and erosion. Deep piles prevent the foundation from being undercut, elevation protects it from runoff debris, and special ""weathering"" steel prevents corrosion, surprisingly, by developing a thin layer of protective rust."
"The Trail Crew has been hard at work replacing bridges on the Tumbling Creek Trail destroyed by flooding in 2012. Tumbling Creek Trail remains closed but the first of its two bridges has been replaced. Pilings for the second bridge, a suspension bridge, have been flown in and cables will be installed in the spring of 2015."
"Wondering just how dry this winter has actually been? Snow Water Equivalence (SWE) tells us how much water is in the snowpack! This year’s 80 mm of snow at our Kootenay snow survey site, Sinclair, is well below the March average of 124 mm. This information is also important to other agencies such as BC Hydro when planning for flood control and power generation."
BC Wildfire Service in partnership with Parks Canada is currently managing the Whitetail Creek wildfire in the Beaverfoot valley outside of Kootenay National Park. This fire does not currently pose a risk to visitors or communities.
"The wildfire in Verdant Creek area of Kootenay National Park has grown since it was first detected on July 15. Parks Canada staff, with contracted helicopters, are actively managing the fire. The area closure in Kootenay and Banff national parks remains in place until further notice. However, the following facilities in the area remain open at this time: Sunshine Village and its summer use trails, Shadow Lake Lodge, other tourism operations, the Hawk Creek Trail to Ball Pass and Redearth Trail to Ball Pass remain open at this time.

Parks Canada Crews are also managing small wildfires in the Emerald Lake and Amiskwi areas of Yoho National Park. There are no associated area closures at this time."
Parks Canada is actively managing new wildfire starts in Kootenay National Park. Safety is our top priority. Check www.DriveBC.ca and www.511.alberta.ca for potential road closures. Further updates will be provided tomorrow morning.
"Verdant Creek wildfire

Parks Canada fire management specialists are confident that the Verdant Creek wildfire is not a risk to communities in the Bow Valley.

Parks Canada is planning to open trails in the Egypt Lake area, Healy Pass, Sunshine Meadows and Sunshine Village on Wednesday, July 26th.

Smoke associated with the fire in BC may be present in the Bow Valley.

A fire ban remains in effect in all mountain parks due to the elevated fire danger and to prevent the possibility of human-caused fires."
"Verdant Creek Wildfire

The Verdant Creek Wildfire is currently being held. Recent cooler temperatures and precipitation allowed the crews working directly on the fire’s edge to make significant progress. Parks Canada will continue to actively monitor the Verdant Creek wildfire using helicopters and ground crews.

A fire ban remains in effect in Banff, Yoho and Kootenay national parks. Changes in the fire ban will occur when it is safe to do so and will be communicated with the public when they are in effect."
"Winter will wrap its chilly arms around us soon but, back in the summer, fire crews were busy. Wildfires are a part of life in Kootenay National Park but managing them can be challenging in steep, mountainous terrain. This year, the Numa Creek Wildfire proved too dangerous for ground crews, so fire specialists used a technique known as ""back-firing"" to slow it down. Here is a behind-the-scenes look at what fire specialists were watching for as the operation was underway."
"As early as Tuesday, April 4, if conditions permit, Parks Canada fire specialists will ignite the Sinclair Creek prescribed fire in southern Kootenay National Park. This prescribed fire is 61 hectares and is located opposite the Radium Hot Springs pools. Once completed, the fire will help to restore and maintain open forests and grasslands, maintain an important wildlife corridor in the Sinclair Canyon, and provide increased wildfire protection to the village of Radium Hot Springs.

The Radium Hot Springs pools will remain open. The pools provide an excellent view of the prescribed fire."
#TBT to 1 year ago when crews from across the country gathered in Kootenay National Park to help fight the Verdant Creek Wildfire. A big thank you to everyone involved and to the communities for the support throughout the 2017 fire season. Visit www.parkscanada.gc.ca/verdant-fire to learn more!
"While fighting wildfire or managing prescribed burns for restoration projects, fire fighters are exposed to temperatures in excess of 40C. In some cases, working temperatures can exceed 50C! We reduce risk through exposure by limiting time spent working in high temperature environments, taking frequent breaks from the fire in shaded locations, shortened working days and drinking lots of fluids. A typical fire fighter might consume 1L of water per hour! "
A recent photo from the Octopus Mountain wildfire.
"Due to the wildfire in Numa Creek Pass, Numa Creek trail, campground and drainage and Tumbling Creek trail are closed. The Floe Lake, Helmet Falls, Tumbling Creek, and Ochre Creek campgrounds remain open, as well as the passes adjacent to Floe Lake and Helmet Falls. Visitors with smoke sensitivities should avoid using the area. Please stop by the Kootenay Visitor Centre in Radium"
??#DYK?? fires create a mosaic of burned and unburned patches of forest? This diversity in the forest helps reduce the risk of wildfire in the future and improves the health of the overall forest by increasing diversity. #FireScienceSunday??
"“In this photo I am controlling the burning of fuels along the roadside as part of the Sinclair Prescribed Fire in April 2017. The Sinclair prescribed fire will help increase security of the Columbia Valley and the community of Radium Hot Springs in the event of a major wildfire. As part of the Sinclair restoration area plan, this prescribed fire will also restore and maintain open forest and grassland habitat on the slopes of Mount Berland. This area is an important wildlife corridor for species such as bighorn sheep, wolf, cougar, elk, and grizzly bears. After working for years in preparation and waiting for just the right conditions, it's very rewarding to finally carry out the Sinclair Prescribed Fire!” "
"Today, Thursday May 4, Parks Canada fire specialists will ignite the remaining 36 hectares of the Sinclair Creek prescribed fire in southern Kootenay National Park. This prescribed fire will cover a total of 61 hectares and is located opposite the Radium Hot Springs pools. Once completed, the fire will help to restore and maintain open forests and grasslands, maintain an important wildlife corridor in the Sinclair Canyon, and provide increased wildfire protection to the village of Radium Hot Springs.

The Radium Hot Springs pools will remain open. The pools provide an excellent view of the prescribed fire."
"The 352 hectare Octopus Mountain wildfire continues to burn between Kootenay National Park and Mount Assiniboine Provincial Park. The fire grew significantly on Monday due to stronger winds but there is currently no threat to visitor safety. Fire specialists from Parks Canada, B.C. Provincial Parks and the B.C. Wildfire Management Branch are jointly managing the fire."
"The wildfire in Verdant Creek area of Kootenay National Park has grown since it was first detected on July 15. Parks Canada staff, with contracted helicopters, are actively managing the fire. The area closure in Kootenay and Banff national parks remains in place until further notice. However, the following facilities in the area remain open at this time: Sunshine Village and its summer use trails, Shadow Lake Lodge, other tourism operations, the Hawk Creek Trail to Ball Pass and Redearth Trail to Ball Pass remain open at this time.

Parks Canada Crews are also managing small wildfires in the Emerald Lake and Amiskwi areas of Yoho National Park. There are no associated area closures at this time."
"Rockwall Update: With no significant rainfall this week, closures in the Numa Creek Drainage remain in effect. The good news is that the Numa Creek Wildfire remains contained at 80 ha"
The brilliant turquoise of the Vermilion river shines against the backdrop of the 2003 wildfire.
"This month we will be sharing a series called #FireScienceSunday! ??
Join us as we explore the fascinating world of fire ecology every Sunday. Stay tuned for #FireScienceSunday to learn more about fire and vegetation management in the mountain national parks or visit: www.parkscanada.gc.ca/mountain-fire

In 2017, Verdant Creek wildfire in Kootenay National Park burned to this ridge-top, leaving a beautiful stand of larches just changing into their fall colors on the other side. Although wildfires have a reputation as being a destructive force of nature, they are a natural process and a crucial part of a healthy ecosystem. Learn more about fire management and the opportunities that wildfires provide to restore and maintain ecological integrity in our national parks."
"Today's warmer temperatures and change in wind direction will produce increased fire activity in the Verdant Creek wildfire in Kootenay National Park and other wildfires in BC.

The Verdant Creek wildfire is not a threat to the Bow or Columbia Valleys. There is increased smoke in the area, which may affect visibility along highways through and adjacent to Banff and Kootenay national parks. Travellers should check Drive BC and AB 511 for possible temporary closures, alternate routes and the most up-to-date information.

Crews continue to work to contain the spread of the fire. The safety of the public, our crews, park infrastructure and neighbouring lands remains Parks Canada’s first priority.

A fire ban remains in effect in Banff, Yoho and Kootenay national parks due to the elevated fire danger and to prevent the possibility of human-caused fires."
"You may notice intermittent smoke near the hot springs and the community of Radium Hot Springs. Crews are thinning the forest on the lower slopes of Mount Berland and burning piles of branches, bark and other debris. All trails and facilities in Sinclair Canyon remain open. The work area is closed and clearly marked.

Forest thinning and prescribed fire are helping to restore open forest and grassland ecosystems, including critical Rocky Mountain bighorn sheep habitat. The new meadows will also act as firebreaks and reduce the risk of wildfires spreading to park facilities and the community of Radium Hot Springs."
"Ten years ago, 12% of Kootenay burnt during the summer wildfire season. Today, wildlife graze in the open spaces and beautiful fuschia fireweed flowers here. Fire continues to be important to our forest's ecological heath."
