Review/Tweet
"One of the great drives
This is often rated one of the most scenic drives in the world and it is certainly one of the most scenic we've ever taken. Gorgeous mountains around every turn, many with glaciers. More signage especially some indicating how quickly these glaciers are retreating because of climate change would be welcome."
See the glaciers melting as climate changes. Sad but still beautiful. Don't forget to buy a permit from the national park office near lake Louise. They check it at the entrance to the drive
"We drove the parkway on a beautifully clear spring day. A lot of the side trails were still closed. Still lots of stops heaps of photos. We drove Canmore to Jasper, and I felt we were driving with our back to the view?
Mountains, lakes, rivers all the things we do not have. Very sad that climate change adversely affects the glacial field. The recission of the Columbia glacier was obvious. I can't help but agree with the previous reviewer, to get there before it's gone. And, let's be realistic, the Swiss have their own Alpine landscapes including glaciers - when they call this awesome it has credibility."
"We have driven this scenic parkway three times before, once during the summer and twice in winter. This particular trip was in November during a visit to Chateau Lake Louise, when the snow added a particular charm and beauty to the sights along the Parkway. (But don't try it this time of year without proper tires and gear, as described in the official signs posted at the entrance to the drive.)

One slightly off-putting aspect of the trip: In past visits to Crowfoot Glacier along this road, we found the signs interesting that explained the melting of the glacier (due to climate change) that was causing the ""toes"" of the crowfoot to disappear. I know that Alberta is enjoying the prosperity that comes from all those tar sand deposits, but was it really necessary to take down those signs?"
"We didn't get a lot of time on this trip to stop at all the sights but we were able to stop at a few canyons and experience the icefields and how the warming of our climate is melting them at an alarming rate. You should experience this in life via car / motorcycle, not touring in a bus. You need to be able to go at your own pace and take your time, breathe the air and relax"
"This trip took us an entire day, views in every direction, all the time. Sad that the glaciers have retreated so much in recent decades. Definitely concrete evidence of rapid climate change. Note that there are few services along the way. Start with a full tank of gas. We brought a box lunch so I can't comment on the food available at the Icefields Centre, where we made a bathroom stop. We did not have time to actually go out on a glacier (trips arranged at Icefields Centre). Would have liked to do that.

It was an (unusually?) hot August day. We did not need the hat and gloves which we were advised to bring. But we might have ON the glacier"
"We did this day with Brewster tours ( approx 9hrs ) from jasper to Banff our driver for the day Alan Was so informative and really helped make our day even more special .
It is such a stunning drive and rightly so in national geographics top 10 . We visited peyto lake ( even better than lake Louise ) as nothing there but the beautiful blue lake . The sky walk was good but very busy 
As was the trip out onto the Athabascar glacier via one of Brewsters special trucks . We had a buffet lunch at the visitor centre which overlooked the glacier but not long ago 50 years I believe would of been with the curtalige of the glacier itself ( frightening to see how much it is receding 
And people say global warming doesn't exist ye right ) The whole trip is really good to do this time of year as generally not too busy but of course bad weather can come at anytime . We were very lucky with weather but can see why these tours generally close mid oct as they have to have a cut off point the same as Alaskan cruise which I have covered in separate review but was part of this trip"
"From Banff, it's a bit of a ride to the visitors center, but if you want to avoid the crowds, just stop at some hiking trails along the way or have someone at the center recommend places to go to avoid the hordes we found at the main site.

We were recommended the Wilcox Trail, a rugged uphill hike at the start, followed by a less-strenuous, flatter trail we didn't take, but what made it all worth it was the sight of 3 bighorn sheep just watching us from above. They were simply munching, didn't bother us at all, but their horns alone are just spectacular to see. Didn't need to see them fighting, just watching us was enough.

That was the favorite trail of our visitors center advisor, but what we should've asked was the proper parking lot and trail to reach the front of the glacier across the road from the center. We pulled in, parked at the first lot we saw and jumped on a trail that eventually had us crossing a stream on a board (not too hard), then crossing a plain full of rocks to get to the trail we should've been on had we parked at the right lot.

Someone also told us that correct trail to the glacier was ""flat."" Wrong. It was significantly uphill, although worth the (crowded) trek to reach the front of the glacier (which you can't walk on without a guide).

Most striking, though, as we walked back to our car along the correct trail and the right road were the markings noting where the glacier was in past years. The ""no global warming"" crowd maight want to check them out because in the past few decades, the glacier has receded significantly.

But the drive from Banff (we didn't make it up to Jasper and back down, so can't help there) is quite scenic. One warning: If you stop at a place called the Crossroads, you'll find a nice view from their outdoor dining patio, but extremely expesive gas, since they're the only game around for miles (or kilometers). Also when we stopped to eat at the patio (there's also an indoor restaurant with a more extensive menu), we were told that if we wanted a burger, we'd have to cook it ourselves. Really. Odd, so we went for the fish tacos they cooked for us.

But if you can get off the beaten path or just absorb the scenery, the 2 1/2 hours plus from Banff can be a worthwhile day trip"
"Sadly over the years, the glaciers have receded due to global warming. The ice fields were kilometres in length and width. It was like a mass of ancient ice which could be seen for a great distance from the highway."
He tour group did a great job. You visit multiple sites and have a once in a lifetime chance to see some spectacle sites. Hurry up as the glaciers are melting and will be gone in a few years do to global warming.
"did the Icefields parkway and Athabasca glacier tour with discover Banff tours what a a fantastic time we had. The views driving along the icefields parkway were incredible such beauty. Our guide Anika was fantastic so enthusiastic and stopped many times at places that weren't on the program for us to take photos as well as the scheduled stops. 
This drive to the Athabasca glacier is truly stunning so much to see and appreciate nature. Once at the glacier we boarded a bus to take us to a special snow mobile to take us onto the glacier. It was nice yet sad to be able to walk on an ancient glacier that wont be there in the future due to global warming. 
We had a picnic lunch at a nice spot with views of snow capped mountains all around and plenty of fresh air. On the way back to Banff town we spotted a black bear on the edge of the forrest took many photos and a video. Truly an amazing tour and guide we really enjoyed the beauty of nature ."
"The drive from Lake Louise through Columbia icefields to Jasper is amazing, make sure to charge your cameras as there are many amazing viewpoints all along the drive. There are mountains, rivers and glacial lakes making it one of the most fantastic drives.

The parkway is mainly two lanes with occasional passing lanes and the speed limit is 90 Kmh (55 mph)

A stop at Columbia icefields, which is on route, which worth the time. Our guide informed that the glacier tours might not be possible in a few years because of global warming."
It was raining when we visited ice field parkway. It was easy walk up from the parking. Glacier has shrieked in size probably because of global warming. Views are still stunning.
"Put this on your bucket list and then go check it off quickly, before the glaciers are all gone! Seriously, this natural wonder, a couple hours north of Lake Louise, Alberta, Canada is breathtaking, awe inspiring, and beyond memorable. The drive north on Icefield Parkway is full of spectacular views. Start with a full tank of gas, just in case, bring snacks and a box lunch (you really don't want to eat at the Icefields Visitor Center cafeteria, trust me on this), and bring warm clothes to change into once you arrive (it's definitely colder--and VERY windy). For a small boatload of money, you can ride a special tour bus up a private road onto the actual glacier. You can walk for free on a pathway a point near the lower edge of the glacier. Along the way are year markers showing how far the glacier has retreated over time. It's unbelievable how much has disappeared since just 2000. The real eye opener is the photo at the visitor center taken about 1 century ago that, compared to today, shows how more than half the entire glacier has melted. In a couple more generations, it will be completely gone, if we don't reverse our contributions to global warming. Anyway, go see it. Don't wait."
"Hands down, must visit. IF you qualify the following think about this: Couples: propose on the glaciers Family: teach them about global warming Friends: great road trip Business: there is convention center there! Great business retreat. Solo: find your true self."
The continental divide! The melting ice cap and the Athabasca Glacier itself (global warming)! Ash from the forest fires of BC! 900 year old trees! The Brewster Bus ride on to the top of the glacier and experiencing what it feels like to look at the world below from an ever shifting ice cap below your feet! The ravine created by the melting ice cap! The dangers of breaking away from the restricted area onto unrestricted area! The sky blue ice under your feet! What more does one ask for in one tourist attraction! Food and warm clothing available for purchase at the Tourist Station (base). One of the most beautiful sights in the world! MUST VISIT!
"One of 100 unforgetible destinations in Canada. Sunday morning my family deside to do a day trip here, in Alberta. We choose to explore the Icefields Parkway. Hw 93 north from Lake Louse to Jasper will take you to unforgettable road trip! Gorgeous Rockie Mountains, lakes, hiking trails, wild life will make you feel soooo good! The most exited spot on that road it's Athabaska Glacier. Huge glacier sleeping between the mountains. With the dippest spots in there as deep as 300 meters! To bad that with the Global warming the glacier getting smaller. In past 125 years got shorter in 1,5 km. With each year melting faster. You should rush to see that unique place! We end out day trip in Jasper. Litle turist town where Hw 93 and Hw 16 met with population of just 5,000 people. We loved our trip!!! We want to go back!"
"We drove north on this parkway to Jasper and 3 days later we drove south to Banff. Unfortunately, the smoke from the BC wildfires blanketed much of our drive, but we still stopped at Bow Lake, Altitude Restaurant at the Icefields Center, hiked to the Athabasca Glacier, and amazing Athabasca Falls. The mountains were barely visible but the places we stopped were still delightful, especially Athabasca Falls. 
After the smoke cleared a few days after arriving in Banff, we decided to try once more and drove up the Pkwy to Peyto Lake. It was really amazing to see the mountains Peyto and Bow Lakes in all the splendor of their color. This parkway is a delightful way to see a lot of different lakes, glaciers and falls. "
"I planned the drive to Jasper & back over 2 days to get the full experience of this parkway, and with overcast and wildfires smoke on both days, the vista was not as impressive, but I could imagine it far more spectacular set to blue sky

The majority of icefields are viewed to the west, and there are a number of stopping points to enjoy outlooks, waterfalls, lakes and vistas'

Don't rush it, its too unique not to take in and appreciate"
"There are just so many stunning natural attractions and places to stop along the Icefields Parkway it's almost difficult to understand it's all natural and not some manmade tourist strip. How you can just drive along an almost straight road and have so many beautiful attractions on both sides of the road the whole way is mind-blowing. The road itself is well maintained, smooth with wide shoulders and off road parking at all the beauty spots. There are a lot of cyclists using this highway but there is more than enough room for them to travel safely alongside vehicles. There are toilet facilities at most of the stops and they all have hand sanitizer as there's no running water. I was also impressed by the presence of not only bear proof bins but the frequency of recycling bins as well - Australia could learn a lesson from this. Coming from Australia my husband was nervous about driving on the wrong side of the road but as it's essentially just one long road there's no cross traffic to worry about and even though we were there in mid July the traffic wasn't congested at all. We drove both ways between Banff and Jasper and the view is of course different from both directions. We did most of our stops on the way to Jasper and just stopped at the ones that weren't accessible from the other side of the road on the way back. There were massive wildfires in Banff NP while we were there and we were lucky to make it through both ways as the highway kept being closed. This also meant there was lots of smoke obstructing the view but the beauty, vastness and variety of terrain was still amazing. This would definitely be one of the most spectacular drives in the world. Make sure you take drinking water and snacks with you as there's only really a couple of places to buy food/drink enroute and some of the hikes to viewpoints can be long and hot in summer. Wet wipes would be an advantage too as there's no hand washing facilities at the toilets, just hand sanitizer. Allow a full day to travel between Banff and Jasper allowing for stops along the way."
"Our plan was to visit the Plain of Six Glaciers on the huge vehicles. When we arrived, it was pouring rain, so we decided to watch the 20 minute movie in the Visitor Centre. There is also a very good visual display with information on the area. When we emerged, it was sunny! So we actually walked up to the glacier. So glad we did not take the expensive tour. Just walking and being in the glacier area was fascinating and humbling. It was a good way to understand the effects of global warming, with the glaciers actually melting rather rapidly over the years. Worth a visit for sure."
We took the Plain of Six Glaciers path leaving the Car park at Lake Louise around 9.30. It took us 3hours to get to the plain near the tea house and a further 1 hour return to the lookout. The views were amazing - although not quite as good as hoped because of smoke from the U.S. Wildfires drifting into Alberta blocking the light. The last 30mins hiking were the toughest but we took it very easy as it's not a race. As the day progressed the number of hikers increased. This is a popular path for walkers and horse riding
"When we arrived, it said it was only 100m to the top. however, what they didn't include was that it was 100m uphill!
It was well worth the climb however and apparently will soon disappear due to global warming so if you get the chance - go now.
We were there in June and there was snow on the ground so think about footwear.
I think if you go as part of a bus tour then you are taken to the top (so don't need to climb) but this is not an option in a car."
The hike up to Peyto Lake is easy although there is a bit of a grade to climb. The path is wide and clear. And the view from the top spectacular. It is frightening to see how much the glacier had retreated. Hard to deny climate change when you witness this.
"A stiff ten minute walk uphill leads to the viewpoint which, on a day not shrouded by smoke from 600 wildfires, must be amazing."
Pleasant stop on the parkway trek. Busy though. Views not too clear when we were there due to drifting wildfire smoke from BC. Did summit walk.
"The area around Peyto Lake and Bow Summit is beautiful as is most of the surrounding area and lakes. We visited on 08/15/18 early in the morning and the crowds were not too bad, but I imagine the crowds are bigger if you wait to visit later in the afternoon. There were wildfires burning this time of year so the air was not as clear, but still worth the visit."
"We made two attempts to see Peyto Lake which is located at the summit of the unbelievably beautiful Canadian Icefield Parkway. On the first attempt, the Lake was shrouded in clouds that prohibited viewing.

Our second attempt required a mile-long hike up from the lower parking lot. My wife and I regularly walk 2-3 miles, but this hike was extremely steep and arduous.

When we arrived at the tiny viewing area, the lake was barely visible through the smoke from local wildfires. Peyto Lake is a small teal colored Alpine Lake. The viewing platform was well above the lake and the lake looks exactly like the photograph!

For those who are not avid hikers, I suggest parking in the top lot designed for buses and those who choose not to make the steep climb from the lower parking lot."
The lake setting is still beautiful but it seemed much more dried up than on our last visit 5 years ago. Maybe that was just because the spring melt was still underway and the lake had not filled up yet. Or maybe climate change is slowly ruining yet another scenic treasure. Sincerely hope it's not the latter
"Moraine Lake is more beautiful than Lake Louise, in my opinion. Global warming is shrinking the glacier at Lake Louise and the lake which was stunning 25 years ago, just does not beat out Moraine any more. If you are making a choice, visit Moraine."
"I wish I had read about this area before driving north. Since I had been here before, I expected it to be much the same. But the Spring rains and floods as well as the economy have changed things. Many of the campgrounds were closed, or many of the sites within a campground were closed. That left too few sites for too many campers. Campgrounds were filled early in the morning and those of us who waited until noon were caught unaware. The wardens were not much help, saying it was “lack of infrastructure” – or basically not funded. So at least 100 campers parked along a road for “overflow” camping for $8.80 each. If they had been allowed to use the designated sites, at $34 each, it seems like that would have paid for someone to clean the bathrooms or whatever the “infrastructure” comment meant. But summer is the only time this area is filled to capacity, so they staff accordingly. Guess they’ve never heard of hiring help for summer only – like college kids? The parking lots at the main attractions (Lake Louise, Lake Moraine) were full by 10AM. There is a pay-shuttle bus between points, but after waiting for one hour, we realized he wasn’t coming and finally just hiked up to Lake Louise. We left the Canadian Rockies much earlier than we had planned, as we felt the stress of the overcrowding, hassled & definitely not relaxed with the competition for space. The beautiful area is being loved to death. If we ever go back there, it will definitely NOT be in July or August."
"A scenic drive to the picturesque lake. Unfortunately, the view (mountain reflection in lake) was hampered by wildfire smoke."
What a gorgeous mountain setting. We were there for the sunset. Unfortunately wildfires in the area shrouded everything in smoke. Also be prepared for them masses descending on the place.
"We tried for 3 mornings to get here. The staff at the Fairmont recommended it and said go before 9 or after 7. First day parking lot full. Second day we came within 15 cars and gave up. 3rd day we set off at 7:15 from our hotel. Arrived at 7:38 and scored the last parking spot. So worth it despite some residual smoke from wildfires. Peaceful, water like glass, easy trail to the far end of the lake. It was worth three tries. Don't miss it. I like it better than Lake Louise, quieter 4 stars because of parking. But they do have a shuttle bus available"
"We visited this place twice during our stay in Banff NP. The first time we tried to get in during the morning, but the parking was full, so we went back later in the afternoon. We hiked easily along the lake but due to the wildfires, the views were hazy. After it rained a couple days later, we went back on a sunny morning and went up the Rockpile. The views were gorgeous and definitely worth the long wait for the free shuttle (as once again, the parking was full when we tried to get in). Go really early or later in the day if you prefer to drive and park."
"Moraine Lake is located a short drive from Lake Louise in Canada. This beautiful teal colored Alpine lake is surrounded by a ring of striking Canadian Rocky Mountains in an mystical setting. In the absence of smoke from local wildfires it is a striking setting!

The lake is extremely popular, and a small parking lot is packed from the early morning, making access very difficult! Traffic controls limit access to the lake as the parking lot fills. During the summer there are free shuttles from the Lake Louise parking area to the lake.

If you miss the limited parking in the early morning or if the shuttle is not available, visit the lake between 3-5 pm as visitors depart the lot leaving available spaces.

If the skies are clear, this is a must see experience in the Banff/Lake Louise area!"
"I highly recommend visiting this lake. It is stunning. The day we went, it was cloudy (or hazy from the Canada wildfires?) and yet the water was so beautiful, so blue. My photos did not even look real. It looked like I super imposed my kids on a fake background. That is how pretty it is. Try to go and see this lake on a sunny and clear day, if possible. It will probably be 10x prettier, I am sure.

Now the tricky part with Moraine Lake is getting there EARLY! Thank goodness I did my research. I had read that unless you get here by 8:30 to 9:00AM or so, the road can close because it becomes too crowded. So getting here takes some serious planning. We were staying in Banff, so my goal was to get here by 8AM, which meant we had to wake up at 6AM, and it is an hour drive to get here from Banff. It is around 10 miles from Lake Louise, though. We arrived around 8:45AM and there was no parking at the parking lot. We were simply grateful that we could get onto the road, and we parked on the street and walked .4 miles from the car to the stunning lake. There is a mountain of rocks that people were climbing. But because I did my research, I knew there was a trail in the back, so we hiked up. But my kids and husband did climb down the rocks. Be careful on the rocks and the logs, a young woman fell off of one of the logs, landed in the water and was all wet. This was in mid August, and the temperature was probably in the 50s Farenheit at that time, so she must have been freezing!!

P.S. By the time we left, which was probably around 9:30ish (possibly 10AM), the cops closed off the road. No cars were allowed to turn in there.

I loved this lake, and would totally go back and do the whole waking up early, etc... to get there. Enjoy!"
The lakeshore trail was easy and uncrowded by 6pm and the view of the glaciers above the lake were gorgeous even with a bit of smoke in the sky from Washington wildfires.
"On my bucket list and unfortunately the views were disappointing due to the wildfires that had been ongoing for the previous 2 weeks. We arrived by 8AM and parking was still plentiful in the upper parking lot- it filled up very quickly within the following 20 minutes-get there early! Very cold for an August morning but we still managed to get some photos in, even with the smoke, the pictures had an almost ethereal look to them. It was very crowded with tourists and we did take a walk inside the Fairmont. Also, be sure to bring water and wear decent shoes or sneakers for any hiking you may do."
"This is a bucket list place for everyone. I can promise you that. There is so much to see and do here. You could spend a whole week here and not see it all. This park is a such a unique beauty. Between the mountains, the trails, the trees, and lakes, you will not be disappointed. There are so many breath taking sites. My husband and I came here during the massive wildfires in BC and the smoke permeated the park. It was a bit disappointing but it did bring a different sort of beauty to the park; a definite eeriness. "
What a great park. So many trails and sights to see. Unfortunately when we visited it was smokey from the BC wildfires but it was still an amazing place.
"We were in Banff and Jasper national parks recently. We rented a camper from Cruise Canada for our much awaited vacation. Unfortunately the smoke from the wildfires in the US wiped out the views for several days. We did have one clear day in Banff and about 3 clear days in Jasper. I WOULD NOT recommend renting a camper from these people. Our battery died one rainy night and we had to drive 60 miles to get it replaced. Two days later, we were without a battery, due to different issues, ( I'm not a mechanic). Fixing the RV took up 2 of our vacation days as I am sure they do not do preventive maintnence. I won't even mention how bad the kitchen kit was. My husband could not even flip a burger with the crappy tools. I would recommend staying at any of the lodges, or bring your own RV."
"Even with the smoke from the wildfires, the views of Bow Lake are simply stunning. There is a fairly large pull-off from the road where you can get out of the car and get some great pictures. The red roof from Num-Ti-Jah lodge are visible from the parking area."
"WOW - Just stunning. Drove northbound in the morning when it was a little smokey from the wildfires. Stopped at Johnston Canyon which was amazing. Try and get started early because it gets very busy. The scenery along the entire parkway is beautiful. After doing the Lake Louise Chair Lift and having lunch I returned and did the parkway again southbound. Morning smoke and clouds had cleared and the persoectives were totally different.
My only regret was that I didn't get to see any wildlife on the parkway - Just unlucky."
"We strolled down the valley and had that is where we saw the most wildlife. We saw a few elks, rabbits, and even saw a small grizzly bear. This is where you need to be if you are looking at seeing wildfire and make sure you have your camera ready!"
This is a side loop off the ice fields parkway. the road travels up a little bit so you get a good view of the river. We usually see wildlife but due to the wildfire smoke last year we did not . there are some pull outs with historical markers off the road also.
"Don't expect the trail all to yourself as you wind up the canyon along this beautiful river. The trail is well maintained and paved - there were people of all hiking abilities navigating it with ease.

I highly recommend following the trail past the final waterfall up to the Ink Pots. It's less crowded and well worth the strenuous hike to this gorgeous valley.

Note: The recent floods have brought significant mosquito activity. We were each bitten several times despite using a repellant."
"This is one of the most beautiful places I've ever been, and my husband and I have seen quite a few. It is so gorgeous that even when there, seeing it, it felt unreal. The lake was originally named ""Emerald Lake"" by the first European to see it, and that name suits it beautifully. Don't miss the fairly easy hike around the right side toward the glacier. It is probably advisable to get there sooner rather than later, as the glaciers that make this lake so stunning are not likely to survive global warming."
Lake Louise takes your breath away...literally! It has a unique beauty that is indescribable. Very much worth a visit. You can rent an old style canoe and experience the lake out on the water. Glaciers are still visible in the background but may not be for many more years with global warming!
The most beautiful place which has to be seen to be believed. The colour of the water is so stunning. I sincerely hope that the glacier that feeds this lake does not retreat with global warming. You must visit and take lots of photos.
"It's a wonderful place, with just Hotel Fairmont Chateau on one side and the awesome mountains in the other three sides, The snow layer, on the mountain, just across the lake was about 70 meter thick at the beginning of last century, which might have been reduced by few meters due to global warming, but still look awesome. The lake is fed by the melting of snow during the summer, and during winter, it becomes a great play ground for adventure loving people. It's just awesome, and the best, our mother nature can give us in terms of shear beauty."
"You cannot fault the scenery at Lake Louise. Seriously it is one of the prettiest and most majestic places I have ever seen and I would highly recommend a visit. Even with the hoards of visitors there is a peace about the place that passes understanding.
We visited on a cloudy overcast drizzly day but that did not take away from the enjoyment of the place. What did take away was the sloppy car park attendant who was on her mobile phone and waved us on to the over flow car parking where access to the lake is difficult for those with walking problems like my wife. Parking is free. 
The overflow car park surface was poor and is not in good repair.
What did take away from my enjoyment was the lack of signage in the overflow car park which is huge and required a bit of exploring before we would a sign, a tiny sign, with a worn map on it which might or might not have pointed to nearby wet slippery wooden steps that led to a steep path which might or might not have led to the lake. Thank heavens for a passer by who set us straight. Canadians are generally friendly polite and helpful people. 
So we walked and as we emerged through the trees our breath was taken away by the smell from the public toilets. Dreadful.
Parts of it were out of order but fortunately my wife was able to use it.
The lake when we eventually got there makes virtually everything else forgivable. 
You are over 1600 meters above sea level and the air is very clean and pure.
I have been here before in 1975 and from memory I think the glacier came down to the edge of the lake but now as you can see from my photographs it has receded. Global warming? Maybe.
There did not appear to be any signage to show you what you are looking at and it is a scramble at the viewing point to be able to take a picture without be pushed shoved or trampled on by an oriental person. But! It is definitely worth a visit."
"We had heard that the (huge) parking lot fills up, and it took a few times to gain access to the lake. Since we are not early risers, probably the only reason we were able to park that one day was because the air quality was so bad because of wildfires in nearby regions (smoky haze limited the view). We tried to go back on a different day when the air was clear, and the parking lot was full. It is a picturesque place, and it was gratifying to be there because it had been on my bucket list since age 18!"
"The wildfires in British Columbia and the resulting smoke that wafted over the Banff area made it difficult to see the Lake in its beauty. The days we were there was chilly and overcast. BUT Lake Louise is a sight to behold when it's a clear day. Last time there was 25 years ago in October after a fresh snow had fallen overnight making the whole area just gorgeous. It's there, just have to go at the right time. So dont give up!"
"The lake is as beautiful as folks say it is. However get here early (6:30-7:00) in the morning to beat the crowds!!! When we went there, smoke from regional wildfires still impacted the area but a night of rain temporarily suppressed the haze."
"We stayed at the Lake Louise Campground so we were only 2km away. We showed up just before 8:30am and the parking lot was already filling up. The view of the lake was crowded with tourists. Or so we thought..when we returned later that afternoon from our hikes, it was PACKED from the end of the lake to the Cheateau. Despite it being dog friendly, he did not enjoy being stepped on and bumped into. Would recommend going in the Spring or Fall before the crowds and wildfire smoke. Would also recommend taking a walk. Beautiful views, images can be taken all along the lake. The 2.2 km walk along the lake is family friendly, no incline and suitable for wheelchairs/strollers."
"We were fortunate to visit in mid July before the smoke from wildfires hit.
The views of the lake were amazing, if a bit crowded!
We walked along the lakeside and managed to escape some of the crowds and once we headed uphill towards Lake Agnes we were rewarded with spectacular views from above."
"This is obviously a must when coming to Banff. My husband and I came during the wildfires in BC so there was a haze of smoke over everything. I think this actually played in our favor in terms of crowds. We got to Lake Louise around 11AM and the place was pretty crowded but I think nowhere near what it normally is in the middle of August on a weekend. We chanced it and went into the main parking lot. As we entered, the main guard told us to continue out towards the exit and then a person pulled out of their spot!!! We couldn't believe our luck. It was unbelievable. We got a spot ion the main lot. I would suggest to others however, to not partake in our hubris and to just go to the shuttle lot straight away and get on a shuttle bus. You are very unlikely to get a spot in the main lot in the summer. 

The lake is stunning. Even though the smoke we could see the gorgeous turquoise jewel color that was not to be believed. You can rent canoes to go out on the lake but we decided to go on the Lake Agnes's Tea House hike. This is a strenuous uphill hike. Bring water. It is a really lovely hike but it certainly isn't for the faint of heart, especially with the air quality from the smoke. Bring water!!!"
"We anticipated our visit for months, and we were not disappointed. It was everything they promised. There had been smoke from a wildfire for many days but the day we went was beautiful. What a view!! Worth the travel time and challenge with overflow parking."
"The smoke from the BC wildfires dissipated a lot with an overnight rain and we were thrilled to finally see the mountains. 
Go early (9am) to get a parking spot. There is alternate parking a couple km south on 1A with shuttle service. 
The crowds are enormous so be patient. Lots of picture taking (and selfies) at end of the lake near the Fairmont. 
This is a beautiful lake with a 2 km easy picturesque shoreline path. There are canoes for rental. (We hiked instead of canoeing). 
The Fairmont Chateau majestically sits at the end of the Lake which of course adds to the popularity of this area."
"The stunning mountainous backdrop with its patches of white glaciers makes Lake Louise one of the most beautiful lakes in the natural world. I would have liked to sit for awhile on one of the many benches provided alongside its edge to appreciate its beauty in silence. Of course, that's not possible in high season. If you don't want to nudge your way through the busloads of noisy tourists to get a viewing vantage point, make reservations for an (expensive) afternoon tea at one of the Fairmont Hotel restaurants that will give you a spectacular view of the lake through its windows. In the morning, the hotel gives priority to its guests so if your wallet isn't big enough to be one of those, you'll have to find a different place for breakfast in order to get the preferred view. In the evening, the smoke from B.C.'s wildfires had descended into the valleys, giving it a different eerie beauty that was still worth seeing"
"The smoke from the wildfires was pretty bad the day I was in there. Nevertheless, it was quite an awesome view. Lots of people and pretty commercialized. If you can, take the trip down the road to Morraine Lake.... well worth the 15 minute drive"
"Visited Lake Louise on 08/14/18 while in Banff for a work conference. The area is beautiful but unfortunately due to the wildfires burning this time of year, and the smoke hovering in the air our views of the glacier were hindered. The lake and area surrounding was still really nice. It's best to go really early or later in the evening to avoid the large crowds."
"Lake Louise obviously is a stop you need to do when you are in Banff. I went 14 years ago and didn't remember how crowded it is! We went around 7pm to avoid the crowds....they were still there, but we found a parking spot pretty easily since it was so late. The wildfires muted the Mountain View but it was still beautiful. I just don't love how it has a hotel on it and its not as pristine as others in the area"
"This is a lovely spot. The water is beautiful Glacier Blue unlike anything I've ever seen. There is a walking trail along the right side of the lake as you stand in the center if the lake by the hotel. There is public parking but it fills up fast. There is a shuttle bus in use when the lot is full. Canoes available for rent, park personnel on site with info. 4 stars as views limited due to smoke from wildfires and parking issues. We stayed at Chateau Lake Louise Hotel so we had the advantage of viewing the Glacier more than once and at different times of the day. Early morning was best or toward sunset as the sun caused glare with the smoke. Don't miss this."
"We were so disappointed when we went the first time because the smoke from the wildfires ruined the view. We went back a few days later, and couldn't believe the beauty of this lake! A must-see!"
"I'm rarely speechless but here I am scrambling for words to say about Lake Louise. I can't possibly describe how beautiful and scenic it is. 'Twas a bit hazy when we went due to the wildfires but still, nothing can take away from the beauty of the mountains and the blue tint of the lake and the greenery that surrounds it. Photos (even taken by pros) cannot possibly do it justice. It's a must see."
We enjoyed the scenic drive to Lake Minnewanka but we didn't stay long and didn't do the boat ride we had planned because smoke from regional wildfires produced a haze and visibility and air quality were poor. Would love to return when it's clear.
Man made lake but you wouldn't know it! Lot's of really tame chipmunks around and disinterested Bighorn Sheep are easily viewed. We saw this lake in wildfire smoke so didn't get it at its best but its still really nice.
Lovely lake with a scenic road surrounding it. Handicapped acessible picnic tables are available and a small little coffee shop for takeaway. Cruises are available but too smokey from wildfires when we visited to make a lake cruise enticing. Goats nearby and a real treat to see.
This was my first visit to Bow falls after the 2013 floods. It is totally a devastated place. All the picnic benches and the old shore line was washed away by floods. We went to forget me not pond as we did not have any place to sit at these falls.
"Bow Falls was really impressive in June, 2015. Very nice area and a great stop off for anyone visiting Banff. We stop every year and the year of the flood (2013) was something to see. Love watching the falls and this year coming back up to the road we saw a few animals (deer)"
"We got to this area just after tremendous rains had flooded out the area and all the way to downtown Calgary. It had even washed out the main road causing us to make a five hour detour. So to see teh strength of the water and the powers of nature, at this particular time, was incredible"
"Following the 2013 Flood we travelled to this location. While it is still a great area to go to, the incredible damage by the flood of 2013 is substantial. Many of the lower paved trails end hanging three or more feet in the air over washed out banks. The river which was about 12 to15 feet wide and several feet deep when we got there, up stream from the falls, now has a gravel debris field about 50 feet across with the actual water flow on a small portion of that, Standing on the bank of the river up stream from the falls one can see that the river must have been close to 150 to 200 feet wide and debris in the trees indicate it may have been more than 10 feet deep in the forest at this point.at the peak of the flood. However the falls are very pretty to see and the higher trails give a great view. It will likely be a along time before the area is cleared of washed up trees and gravel and picnic areas re-established. The bridge on the highway to this area had one end completely washed out to such an extent that the bride would have to be doubled in length. The end now sits in the middle of the river. There is currently a temporary bridge so access is still available to the bow falls. It is still worth while to see."
"The falls aren't spectacular by any means, but the river is lovely and setting very pretty. Within walking distance to town."
"I wasn't expecting much at these falls because I had seen pictures of them; however, we arrived shortley after the floods and the falls were enormous!. I got some great photos"
"The Bow Falls surged powerfully in late June 2013 since the mountain flood waters that flooded Calgary were raging their way onwards as we saw them in Banff. In the past, the experience had been exciting, but now knowing the extreme damage they were causing downriver, no enjoyment could be taken. The power of nature's forces had seized control and it had to be reckoned with this spring."
"I have never seen the water so muddy, high, and fast. Many people crossed the safety barricade, and so spoiled the picture-taking for the rest of us. but it was truly amazing "
"We were there during the flood.
The falls are beautiful. Short hike from the fairmount springs hotel. Take time to walk along the river. You will see wildlife."
"It is a pleasant riverside walk from Banff to view the Bow Fals. Falls quite impressive but nothing really spectacular, but even so, still a nice way to spend an hour or so on a fine day. We did see a few wild animals on the walk - elks and chipmunks. 
Since our return home we have seen pictures of the falls at the time of the Alberta floods in mid June - a raging torrent and far more impressive than when we saw them in early June - however this is no recommendation to view them only in flood. Potentially dangerous."
"In full flood
Awesome.After weeks of rain and the Bow River being 4 times its normal height we obviously saw it at its best. We then walked along the track into Banff which was very pleasant"
Great views either side on falls. Both are easy drives from town but if your staying at Fairmont Banff Springs you can walk down from the pub (which is great value). When we where there the Bow River was a little in flood (river was over the path into town a couple of places). The Banff Springs side takes you right up to he falls while the town side looks over the falls.
"Our guided tour of the Falls treated us to lovely falls and scenic views as well as interesting info about Jasper and climate change in the area. After our short hike, we also learned about the wildlife in the area. We saw a bear!"
We arrived at Athabasca Falls (17 June) and the carpark was already filling up- busses too. The falls were fabulous and just a short walk to continue onto the canyon and the River. Most rivers were in flood during our visit so all the falls were spectacular.
"It's not just the Falls but the deep and incredibly narrow canyon below the falls. The river had cut a canyon but unusually the hard rock won out and eventually it overflowed, redirected and cut the deep canyon which can be seen today. This is presumably because of the spring floods with glacial melt water (millions of years ago?). A rare example of rock beats water. You can walk the old canyon too. 

Another amazing fact is the fish above and below the falls which is way too high to be passed. Presumable early First Nations introduced some trout above the falls for ease of fishing and to spread the valuable food source. An example of early farming?"
"Having had many deaths over the years at these falls the authorities have been very sympathetic in applying health and safety at the site. True the railing do detract from the natural beauty and sort of shepherd you around but when the rivers in full flood then these falls are not only spectacular but also frightening for the faint of heart.
That said, we were mesmerised by the beauty and the sheer power of the water as it made its was from a gentle undulating flow to a destructive torrent in about twenty feet.
There is a full walkway that allows you to see the first part of the falls from both sides and they are simply stunning. For those more adventurous there are steps that take you all the way down to the river basin with a few off-shoots along the way - the majority of it all is extremely photogenic and I would whole heartedly recommend it to everyone in the area."
Fantastic spot. We visited the week of the floods in Alberta so the river was very high and powerful and a bit mucky! Definitely worth a visit. Go for a little wander around the paths.
A full flow of water gave this attraction an added bonus.Well worth a visit but beware if the river is in full flood - you could get a little wet!!
"When we were there the Athabaska River was in flood due to snow and glacier melt waters, plus abundant rainfall. As a result the volume of water going over the falls was massive. The sound and fury of the waters were very impressive. I tried to get video and sound recordings, but I doubt my puny equipment was up to the task. This is a superb site."
"Got to see the falls in flood, what an amazing sight. Make sure you take the short walk through the gorge - beautiful!"
"We stopped here for the obligatory, if not iconic shot of the falls against a mountainous backdrop. The smoke was very thick from wildfires in BC, which added an eerie layer to the pictures."
"We did our road trip at the height of the drought and wildfire hazard time. The falls were beautiful. The people, however, were not very smart--despite all the signs everywhere about extreme wildfire hazards, and despite the level 4 drought warnings, people were smoking all over the trails around the falls. I just wish others could use some common sense when in nature. We drove through a region with about 360 wildfires. Why throw gasoline on the fire?"
"This is a spectacular activity to do in Jasper. There is a short walk on a paved path to the over look to view Angel Glacier, Cavell Glacier, Mt Edith Cavell, and Cavell lake (pond) at the bottom of the two glaciers. When I was here in the past (5-7 years) you used to be able to walk right up to the pond and the Cavell Glacier. That trail is now closed. If you are in good shape you can do the Cavell meadows trail and turn onto the smaller trail that goes along the ridge line to get a better view of Angel Glacier, Cavell Glacier, Mt Edith Cavaell, and Cavell lake (pond). This trail is gravel, and rocky in spots, but the scenery and photo ops are spectacular. This trail is not for people afraid of heights. Kudos to Parks Canada for the pass system that they implemented for this site. There is road construction just below the trailhead so you need to get a pass in advance to access Edith Cavell road. If this pass system is temporary I think Parks Canada should keep this system in place. It makes for a very relaxing and enjoyable visit since the number of cars on the road, in the parking lot, and people on the trails is limited. Again, I have been here before and thought that without the pass system our visit was a bit chaotic(too many cars and too many people all at once). Finally for those who believe that global warming is all a sham I can tell you first hand that these glaciers are much much smaller than the last time ai was here. In another 5-10 years I wouldn't be surprised if Cavell Glacier is gone altogether."
"I enjoyed by 9AM-ish visit here- there weren't very many people there yet. Walked the Path of The Glacier Trail. I would have loved to have gotten quite a bit closer to the glacier chunks in the lake, but for your safety, that's not allowed because if a big enough ice chunk fell, it could displace enough water in the pond to cause a flood and you could get swept away in frigid cold water- it's happened before- at least the glacier chunk falling, displacing the pond, and causing a flood part."
The glacier at Mt Edith Cavell is absolutely worth the trip. Although one is not able to wake on the glacier it self it is impressive to see what destruction the last melting and the subsequent flood has done to the valley.
"Mount Edith Cavell and its Angel Glacier is my very favorite place to unwind, while in the Rockies. I love this area! The road leading to it is super fun to drive with its hairpin turns. Once at the Cavell parking lot, it is a short hike up a rocky trail to view the majestic mountain and its serene Angel Glacier. A few years ago, the Ghost Glacier to the left of Mount Edith colapsed, releasing thundering noise, heard even down in Jasper village. It caused an instant flood of the Cavell Meadows and washed away the picnic area, leaving massive blocks of glacial ice in its wake. The area was closed off to the public for an entire year. We happened to go there the year before the collapse, then the year after and again this year. The area is recovering well thanks to the great efforts of Parks Canada personnel and nature itself. Don't miss going up to see this magnificent area. Angel Glacier is truly a delightful sight."
"We had very good of close-up view of the remaining glacier. We also learned a past avalanche that caused a major flash flood in Aug, 2012. The nature is so powerful!"
"A steep 14 km ride with many sharp bends takes you to Mt. Edith Cavell but it is worth it. From the parking lot there is a moderately difficult climb up to the close-up view of the glacier. Do NOT leave the trail and go down as the posted warnings say due to a past avalanche that caused a major flash flood in Aug, 2012. Plan at least 2 hours for this place. The most amazing thing I should mention is that there was this brave man in a wheelchair who pulled his chair up the slope to our amazement (picture uploaded). Bravo to him! He made our day."
I was sadden when we got to Mt. Edith Cavell to learn that part of one of the glaciers had broken off and cause a flash flood. There has been a lot of damage to the lower part of this attraction. You can no longer walk over to the lake or walk along the bottom . However it is still a beautiful place to see. The walk over to the attraction is not very far. Easy for kids and older folks.
"We were almost put off of taking this trail because of the rangers' warning of grizzly bears on the trails. We put on our bells, and took our bear spray, and made sure we were making noise- as there were just two of us vs the recommended 4 in a close knit group. I'm very glad we did decide to hike this trail. It is beautiful every step of the way- from the views of the Angel Glacier at the beginning, the wild flower meadows and rolling tundra in the middle, and then the 2nd side trip (going counter-clockwise, which I'd recommend) on the trail. I won't say this is an easy trail- especial the trek up to the very top of the 2nd side trip but worth all the effort. The lookout from the 2nd side trip gives one true 360 degree views of all the mountains in the area. The last leg is steeper down than the ascent was on the rightmost leg (which is why it is better to go up the right leg and then go down the left leg of the loop. but there are pretty scenes, and again lots of wildflowers before you go down to the glacier overlook split off again. The trail down the Angel Glacier lake is closed due to concerns about calving of glacier pieces that could cause a flash flood/water rising. But the lookout over the Glacier and lake is still available and puts you close enough for great pictures. Would highly recommend this trail if you are in decent shape, and like a variety of views and some rewarding challenge(2nd side trip- which you can opt not to do if you don't want to take the trail up, up up). We are fairly fit 65 yr ols, and managed it fine. Take enough water though! We saw folks on this trail without water, and that is not wise."
"I have visited Mt Edith Cavell and Angel Glacier three times during the last 4 years and in three different seasons. It has been accessible in April and October – for sure in July as well. And it has been worth seeing it in all seasons.
There was a major flood recently – this is why the lower trail to the foot of the glacier is not accessible any more, but the upper one is still worth seeing."
"It was a beautiful mountain view of the Glaciers. Once we got there, we had no clue what to expect. We hiked up just a little bit...thought it's pretty. Not until I continued to climb the hill and reached the top area that it exceeded my expectations. I'm so glad I continued. The history behind this Glacier was so interesting. This wasn't on our list, but someone mentioned to us to do it...a must see. 2012 part of the Glacier broke apart causing an avalanche and it caused a flash flood. I'll attach the history in case you might like to review for yourself."
"There are two trails here. There's a short interpretive walk where you get a view of the glacier and lake. There's some decent signs that tell about the glaciers and how a piece of one fell into the lake and caused a flash flood. You can see the results on the road in. There is also a pretty strenuous hike to the top where you get a great view. It looks like it's not that far but it is. It is pretty steep. We did other hikes that were longer with more elevation gain but this is the only one that we considered strenuous. It was a steep climb up loose rocks. Felt a little dangerous at times. Luckily, the trails wasn't crowded. Seemed like people were going up for a while... spent some time at the top, and then people started going down. Lucky that it happened that way be cause it'd be difficult if not dangerous trying to pass people going the opposite way. All in all, it was a good hike with great views. Felt good once you got to the top!"
"Mount Edith Cavell is a striking mountain that is visible from a number of places in Jasper National Park. You can drive to the base of the mountain by following a twisting entrance road off of the old highway 93A. 

Because of the sharp switchbacks, only vehicles less than 7 meters (about 25 feet) are allowed. No trailers and no large RVs. There is parking lot on 93A opposite the access road where you can unhook your trailer, or detach your towed car.

From the parking lot, you can hike a relatively short (0.5 km?), paved, uphill trail to an overlook. The overlook gives you a good view of the north face of the mountain, the glacier, and the pond at the base of the glacier. 

The trail from the overlook to the pond is closed for safety. In 2012, an avalanche caused a large amount of ice to slide into the lake, immediately causing a flash flood that carried a huge amount of debris across the entrance to the parking lot and down 100 meters of the entrance road.

The debris has been pushed to the side and the parking lot has been reopened. Because most the debris is still there, it may look like the entrance road is blocked, but there is actually a nice parking lot still available.

I recommend starting your day at Athabasca Falls before the big crowds arrive, then drive up highway 93A to Mt. Edith Cavell.

By the way, the mountain is named after a pretty amazing person. Edith was a World War I nurse who helped smuggle 1,000 wounded British soldiers from a Belgium hospital behind German lines."
"There are hiking trails at the top, but there is a parking area with great views not requiring any hiking. Due to a flood caused by a part of the glacier falling off, there are several new walking paths, bridges, and picnic tables around a small stream. The drive to the top is pretty steep and winding - not sure I'd want to take an RV up"
"It's a beautiful drive up to Mt. Edith Cavell, and fascinating once you get there. A couple of years ago there was an avalanche that caused a flash flood. It wiped out part of the parking lot and a lot of the trail. It really made you think about the force of nature. Beautiful views and well worth the trip"
"If you're wandering along the Ice Fields Parkway, be sure to take the little jaunt off the road up to Mount Edith Cavell as it's worth the trip. You'll wander along a narrow road working your way up the mountain with a variety of switchbacks so do watch for oncoming traffic. The views along the way are breathtaking. Once at the parking spot, it's a short hike up to various outlooks to see glaciers, mountain peaks, and amazing views. A sudden rupture of a chunk of the glacier in 2012 caused a flash flood that has changed the landscape surrounding the parking area and it's interesting to read about how the area is constantly changing. 

This is raw, beautiful nature so please be respectful. There are a number of paved trails which help reduce the impact of foot traffic on the area -- please stick to the trails and be sure to pick up after yourself. This is a spot to be saved for generations to come."
"I'm only giving this lake two stars as record-setting wildfires in British Columbia flew into this area and obscured all the mountain views. Because the smoke was so bad, we didn't even attempt the boat trip. The Mary Schaffer Loop was the lakefront trail to hike"
"Although the wildfire stopped the views from the lake it was easy to see how stunning it could be.

Good large car park.

We enjoyed an hour canoe around the lake edge. $60 for an hour seemed rather excessive but still a lovely thing to do. If it was cheaper we would have happily spent longer canoeing. It was quite windy on the return trip back to base, so rather more challenging than we thought and we regularly canoe."
"Maligne Lake is the second 'poster boy' lake for the Alberta Rockies and Jasper National Park after Lake Louised. It's on every brochure and postcard rack. No surprise ... it's gorgeous! Drove the 35kms up (gentle but substantial elevation rise) after the Canyon on a great road along Medicine Lake and through the charred devastation of the 2015 wildfire. As elsewhere, lots of information boards along the way and at the Lake. Didn't realise that Medicine feeds the Maligne Canyon through underground caves and when the snowpack melt is done, the lake turns into a mudflat which means the waterfall probably reduces to a trickle. Weather changed to grey, cold and windy so we passed on the lake cruise. The snow capped mountains at the far end of the Lake and the jagged Maligne Range east of the road are spectacular. Makes you feel small in time!"
"Spent an afternoon here as part of a tour around the Rockies. Despite it being quite hazy due to massive wildfires in Washington, this is a beautiful place to go. We went for a walk around the edge to a waterfall on the other side which was really relaxing and beautiful. Not as touristy as Lake Louise, which is not far away. A couple of our group went canoeing which looked fantastic. I would highly recommend, probably more than Lake Louise!"
"This is a ""must stop"" along the icefield parkway. You can see firsthand the receding glacier since 1925. Truly a spectacular view and recognition of our warming climate"
"Stokes global warming fears
Well worth a visit not least to see at first hand the large amount of glacial recession. The adventure that uses the snow coaches is probably the best way to get close"
"Athabasca Glacier - a reminder of the spectacular and shrinking glaciers with globalvwarming
Late May. A visit to the Athabasca Glacier is a tremendous experience. Brewster transport bus transports tourists from visitor centre to an exchange point where one climbs aboard the ice explorers (attached picture) capable of driving across to the glacier. The reminder of the size and age of glaciers and the sheer beauty is amazing. 
The shrinking glaciers are a reality and the description around the visitor centre indicate to the fact. Protecting our environment and planet is extremely important and a visit is a great lesson to what global warming is doing to nature. In a little way not exploring battery operated ice explorers and continuing to use the diesel operated one’s must have an impact on the glacier. The driver thought diesel is important to generate the power to operate the massive vehicle, I suggested Brewster contacting Elon Musk :). 
The actual experience on glacier is limited to hardly 20minutes and this fact could be informed to tourists."
"Glacial wonder
The athabasca glacier and Jasper ice fields were truly wonderful. We were taken to the glacier on the ice explorer, a monster truck with huge wheels. Our guide Rach who drove the explorer gave us lot of information about the glacier and the surrounding areas. Very sad to see the impact of global warming on nature specifically the glaciers."
"A combination of warming, polution and wildfire smoke left this a bit underwhelming. Massive yes, but not the prisitine ice you can find in Iceland. So, it's a Canada experience

The Glacier can be seen along the parkway heading south, and you can get a tour from Columbia Icefields Centre to walk on the glacier tounge to the right."
"Our guide was Super Kyle and he was excellent. Humorous, informative and knowledgable. His personal stories added to the overall experience. It is amazing when you stop and think that you are actually walking on a glacier; not sure that there are very many places in the world where this is possible. The glacier has receded so much since 1843; hopefully people will be more conscientious about global warming and take some positive action. I recommend this adventure for all ages!"
"If there is one spot you need to visit to understand the effects of global warming, it's here. Wow! There are markers to show where the glacier was and it is scary how far back it has gone. We stopped here on the way to Banff from Jasper. 

We didn't do the glacier walk which looked very interesting and will be back for that. We just walked to the new edge of the glacier from the car park which is just over a mile. Took us 30 mins. Some uphill and downhill walking as this is where the glacier was. 

Only negative is that there is only one bathroom so the line was long!"
"Breathtaking hike and view...See it while it lasts
Okay.

I may over exaggerate, but the glacier has receded much, even since the 1980's.

If you don't want to pay for the vehicle ride that takes you out on to the Glacier itself, and we didn't, take the trek up to the glacier where you can feel the higher elevation, and the cold air surrounded you as the view gets better and better.

The glacier looks so much smaller than I thought, and could be due to many factors including industrialization and global warming.

It's still a natural wonder in my eyes and I am glad we took the time to see it on our trip."
"My trip to ther Athabasca Glacier was one I won't ever forget! Not only were the surroundings picture perfect, the experience of standing on a glacier was awe-inspiring. To realize that the glacier is not as large as it once was, made me ponder the questions ""Are events in nature cyclical?"" or ""How much truth is there in the claims many make regarding global warming?"" Either way, I highly recommend this activity for all who love nature and want to witness it firsthand."
"Having read so many bad reviews on TA about the crowd/wait in discovery center , we decided to skip that and the bus ride to the top. Right opposite the discovery parking lot, there is a narrow road that leads up about 1/2 km down to a parking lot (you can drive the path to the parking lot below). We parked at the bottom near the information boards. We hiked up the path to the toe of the Athabasca glacier. It is roughly a mile up to the top. The path is rocky and was slippery since it was still wet from the morning rain. At the top, the proximity to the glacier was awe inspiring - we were within 50 feet of the glacier. They had several markers along the way depicting how soon the glacier is receding. We were saddened to read that we were actually walking on what was a part of the glacier about 30 years ago (global warming). Overall a very educational and awesome experience. The best things in life are free!"
"The glacier itself is beautiful, looking at it from the car park with the mountains surrounding it was quite surreal. I didn't take the bus up onto the glacier (using fossil fuels to add to global warming to speed up the glacier melting? really?) but instead walked along the trail to the edge of it. They have markers showing where the glacier was at particular points from about 1910 onwards, it was interesting seeing how much faster the glacier is disappearing now compared to 100 years ago"
"Walked on a glacier!!
This was one of the best things I did while in Canada - to be able to actually walk on the glacier was awe inspiring with incredible view. Not as cold as I thought it would be but glad I wore a hat! Guide was great, stopping every now and then to show us features of the glacier and keeping us away from the crevices!! WAs fascinating to see how much it had retreated over the years and goes to remind you what we are doing to the planet. I would not go on the glacier on one of the big truck like vehicles that you can do - according to our guide this is aiding global warming and crushes up the ice - which you can see when you see the massive monster truck wheels and the exhaust fumes coming out of them! 

We were up walking on the glacier for a good 2 1/2 hours and I would highly recommend doing it this way - you feel very small once up there!"
We parked at the first car park off the parkway to give ourselves a walk over the rocks to the foot of the glacier. It was well worth it for the views and small river crossing which give kids a sense of some adventure as they approach the glacier. Not too crowded either which was great but the sheer sense of loss when you see how far this force of nature has retreated is palpable. It makes you want to tackle global warming single handedly.
"You get to go out on the glacier ice in a specially designed ice explorer-it gets passengers there safely and also takes care of the glacier. Once there you can get really close for pictures of two glaciers and find out all about the last ice age and how global warming is accelerating the rate at which the glaciers are now receding. Given the importance of the glacial water to all the Canadian waterways, it is a compelling story. Crowds of visitors are out there so you need to be there early (starting at 9am, finishing at 6pm) to make sure you get out there on your chosen visiting day"
"Disappearing Glacier
We stopped at the information centre on the Iceland Parkway and bought tickets on the bus to the glacier ""terminal"". There you mount a huge ice bus to run out onto the glacier. At the glacier, the bus disgorges the passengers and you have about 30+ minutes to walk around the ice and snow of the glacier. (Be careful, there are fissures in the ice but usually well designated). The guide/drivers of both the transfer bus and the ice bus are very informative and good fun. After the time on the ice, there is a return by the same method as going.
It is a shame that global warming is having such an effect on not only this glacier but all over the world. See it while you can.
The information centre has the ever present souvenir shop as well as a well priced cafeteria to get lunch. A pricey excursion but worth the trip."
"Melting away
While travelling with teenagers we decided to take a detour and visit the Glacier. We were transported out by bus to the site, it was a spectacular site, the kids really enjoyed it. It is a shame that with global warming the Glacier is melting away, glad we stopped when we did to see it. A must see before it's gone!"
"The Glacier is going to disappear
If you want more exercise in the course of route, take the path of rocks. Once depiction near the Glacier, you can admire the disaster caused by the global warming in all its magnificence. Panels here and in by the roadside allow to see where was situated the glacier in various dates during the last century."
"As most glaciers around the world is receding, it is more and more important to focus on preservation!!! I am saying this first and foremost because after I got over my tourist haze, standing in front and on top of the stunning glacier. I thought of how sad of a sight this is. Again mankind is making money off of a gift from the Earth and at the expense of mother Earth. Between 1500 to 3000 people are trucked up to the glacier EACH and EVERY day!!! (This data is collected from my Ice Explorer driver, I forget his name but he's one of the longest running driver in the company) No wonder the glacier is receding at record rate! Well what with global warming, it's a bit of a losing battle...

Here's the blurb from the tourist in me...

I finally took the time to visit the Canadian Rockies after being a Canadian for over 20 years. So when I heard about the opportunity to step foot on a glacier, I looked into it and made a decision.

First, if you are visiting the Rockies without a car like myself, bring extra money or bring lots of LUCK! There is NO method of public transportation between Jasper and Lake Louise. The Greyhound bus is NOT allowed as this area is designated as a National Park. So bring your Luck if you want to use your thumb and try to hitch a ride to the Columbia Icefield Discovery Centre. Else bring your money and pay the only tour operator which also happens to own the rights to the Icefields. 

Just stepping onto the Glacier for 15 minutes will cost you $49.95 (without transportation costs). So do yourself a favour and bring an empty bottle, if you want to bottle some of the sweet tasting glacier melt water home!!

I ended up paying about $170 to HI Lake Louise Hostel which included 1 night of dorm, ride to the Icefield, admission onto the Glacier and either return back to the hostel in Lake Louise or choose to be dropped off in Jasper. I chose to be dropped off in Jasper as that saved me $77 for the Brewster bus ticket (one-way between Lake Louise and Jasper).

I paid the STEEP price because I was already here and wasn't sure if I would return in the future. It would be cool for me to step foot on a North American glacier after trekking on a glacier in South America at the beginning of the same year.

Make your own decision to visit or not - weigh your pros and cons."
"An icy experience like no other!
An unforgettable experience for me to ride the ice explorer and walk on the glacier. Wow! The view from the restaurant as well as on the glacier itself was awesome! One item off my bucket list. I was finally able to experience the GLACIER which was just something I read in the books and saw on tv. It was overwhelming to be in the middle of one and touch the bluish icy pavement with some danger spots somewhere. We were told to just stay in designated areas. With global warming, it is sad to think that these glaciers might just be a thing of he past."
"Amazing - natural - and will disappear wtih global warming. Do recommend to take the Bus to the glacier, simply the best views. if possible, take the walking tour with a guide."
"My visit to Athabasca Glacier took place in July 2012, as part of a lengthy road trip that had me drive from my Southern California home all the way to Jasper. Athabasca was definitely a worthy stop, due to it being on Icefields Parkway connecting Banff and Jasper, and also being the only easily accessible glacier from my driving route.

- Location -

There are many glaciers in the Canadian Rockies, and the Columbia Icefields, which straddles British Columbia and Alberta, is the largest ice shelf in North America south of Alaska. Many glaciers flow down from Columbia Icefields on their way to feeding rivers and flowing to the Pacific, the Atlantic, AND the Arctic; Athabasca, which is only 2% of Columbia Icefields, feeds the Athabasca River which eventually joins Mackenzie River and flows into the Arctic in Yukon Territory.

Athabasca Glacier is the only glacier that can easily be reached without extensive hiking; in fact, when first discovered in the 1840s, the glacier extended all the way to today's visitor parking area. The glacier has retreated considerably since then, and also lost much of its volume and depth, thanks to global warming over the decades, both natural and man-made; at the current pace of warming, the glacier will cease to exist in about 600 years."
"A glacier is a glacier, so if you have seen any glacier in the world you can easily skip this one. Besides, the snocoaches that take you to destination are enormous buses that probably contribute a lot to the global warming that is causing glaciers to shrink, and are very pricey. 
Coming from Italy, and having a direct experience of snow-mountains-galciers, I found this excursion disappointing, being taken to a place (or a similar one) I could have probably reached on foot, where I had the impression of being in a sandbox surrounded by huge coaches, instead of being on a real beach.
I have seen people from warm countries enjoy the experience very much. For all the others, it's better to skip the whole thing."
Words cannot describe the beauty of the place. It is a mind blowing experience and gives one an idea about the devastating effects of global warming
"This is a must see along the Icefields Parkway. It’s a receding glacier, and so it’s a moderate climb to see it. My husband and I recommend for young adults to take Icewalks Tour for $60 so you can actually hike on the glacier with a guide. The hike lasts about 3 hours! For those who are more frail, you might want to take the Brewster bus up, and take a special people mover to the ice. This is cheaper, but it’s pretty gross with the diesel gases spewing everywhere on the glacier, and you only get 15 mins on the ice. It’s ironic that so many people take the Brewster tour up, only to learn about how the Glacier is receding now because of global warming."
"One of the main features along the Icefield Parkway between Jasper and Banff is the Athabasca Glacier, one of the most easily accessible glaciers anywhere. The huge Columbia icefield ""spawns"" several glaciers and the Athabasca glacier comes down towards the main road, making it very accessible to the public. The easiest but most expensive way of getting onto the glacier itself is by signing up for the bus and ""ice tractor"" trip. For two of us this cost more than $100 but is a worthwhile experience. You firstly go towards the glacier on a large bus, then transfer to a vehicle equipped with huge tires which can go onto the glacial ice itself. Once at the point they have to stop you have about 20-30 minutes out on the ice, also giving you a chance to put your hand into the icy water flowing in a few channels. Even in summer it is cold out on that ice so don't go in shorts or with no jacket! In the 40 years I have watched this glacier it has retreated about 400 meters (about 10 meters per year), just in case someone reading this doesn't believe in global warming!"
"Athabasca Glacier is Shrinking!
On our drive up the Columbia Icefields Parkway, we stopped at the Athabasca Glacier Visitor Center and purchased tickets to ride the huge glaciermobiles out onto the glacier. The Visitor Center has some interesting exhibits you can view while waiting for your glacier tour, as well as a nice gift shop. 

The ride out onto the Athabasca Glacier is amazing. The tires on the trucks are enormous and you get the sense of going where few have gone before. Once we arrived on the glacier, we were allowed to disembark and walk around, take pictures and just enjoy being in such an incredible environment.

After returning to the Visitor Center, we crossed the road and walked to the dated signs showing where the glacier had been originally, and with each sign, you can see just how much global warming has affected it's size.

The Columbia Icefields Parkway is an incredibly scenic and amazing drive, with fantastic views of the Canadian Rockies, glaciers, and more animals than we've seen anywhere, right alongside the road. Bring your camera and take lots of pictures!"
"This is a ""must stop"" along the icefield parkway. You can see firsthand the receding glacier since 1925. Truly a spectacular view and recognition of our warming climate."
"A quite alarming sojourn
This isn’t a review about the drive onto the glacier. I chose not to do it and instead walked from the alpine centre to the glacier edge. This means walking past several markers that show where the edge used to be up to around 100 years ago. Walking the distance it has retreated is quite alarming and underscores the impact climate change is having in these areas.

Nonetheless, the area is stunning. Apart from the tour groups, there are skiers and even the odd local walking their dog on the glacier. Those in our group who opted for the special bus ride onto the glacier enjoyed it, but you don’t necessarily have to make the purchase to thoroughly enjoy and appreciate places like this."
"First one takes a bus from the interesting visitor center to a place to get on the BIG snow mobile that drives you to the glacier and then you walk on the glacier. Guides provide great service & information, especially when on the snow mobile - telling about areas, mountains, history of the area, shrinking of the glacier ( could it be climate change causing that ????????), etc. Then once on the glacier one walks around for 20-30 minutes and checks thing out - be careful you can slip and someone on our tour stepped in a melting glacial hole - up to her thigh and it was -6 degrees F. She was cold - be careful. This tour is something you should (must) do - if physically able - a unique, interesting and probably for most people a once in a lifetime event. It is not strenuous , Very glad we did it, I can tell my grand kids to do it - hopefully the glacier will still be there when the are old enough to visit."
What a feeling when you ride to the glacer and walk on the ce with the wind in your face - beautiful. Ok its probably because we dont get snow at home... Concernng is the impact of the pace at which the glacier is receeding with climate change...I could seen the difference in 5years. Shout out to the great guides Sam and Sam who were very informative and friendly - keep up the jokes Sam :)
"Great bus, easy to climb on to and off. Drivers are knowledgeable and informative. Good insight into how Glaciers are formed. Insight into climate change and the shrinking glaciers throughout the Canadian Rockies."
"Park your car and trek up to the overlook facing the glacier (it is quite high so it is a bit exerting) or enjoy the view from the large Inn with food courts and restrooms that faces it, next to Hwy 93. The glacier is proof of climate change! I'd seen other glaciers which are more impressive (Perito Moreno in Patagonia or Mont Blanc in Chamonix) but this one has its charm too"
"Sad to see the Glacier retreat
We drove to the bottom parking lot and walked to the toe of the glacier, and the markers indicating the glaciers retreat over the last 150 years or so is quite sobering. It's a short but very steep walk to the toe of the glacier but we did it in trainers. Well worth the effort but whilst accepting the consequences of natural climate change, you do wonder what the consequences of buses on the glacier really are. Not to be missed, especially if you haven't seen a glacier, but unsure of the benefits of going on to the glacier itself"
"The Ice Explorer took us to the glacier where we enjoyed walking on the glacier and seeing up and close. You can carry water bottle to fill glacial water. 
It is sad to learn that in about 75-100 years the glacier will melt and it gives us more reasons to take climate change seriously.

Must visit when you are in Banff or Jasper. Lifetime experience :-)

Tips: Wear sturdy shoes so that you could easily walk on the ice without slipping"
"climate change has a lot to answer for
Having already visited Alaska, including South Sawyer Glacier, Hubbard Glacier, Holgate Glacier etc this glacier was a real disappointment. It has retreated so far in recent years it's visibility from the highway is limited. If this is the only glacier you'll have a chance to see you probably need to do the ice explorer trip out onto the glacier to get a decent look at it. We didn't want to do that and my husband was so underwhelmed he didn't even bother getting out of the car to look at it."
"Recently enjoyed a great half day out on this monstrous sheet of ice, over 300m deep and larger in area than the greater Vancouver city area! What a great feeling standing on such a massive natural ice formation but such a pity that climate change is causing it to recede so fast now. Go see it while you still can! The huge ATV that takes you out onto the glacier is a must do experience :)"
"You can't miss this if you drive between Jasper and Banff, nor should you. The view from the road is already impressive. There's a very large car park near the very large tourist centre, and the reason for the size immediately became clear from the numbers of tourist buses around, even though this was the end of the season. The centre itself was so overcrowded that we abandoned it quickly! There's a clearly marked trail. also busy, leading up to the snout of the glacier, which is worth doing, but there's a strong cold wind pouring down from the ice, so wrap up. On the way are markers showing where the snout was over the past +100 years, as it has been retreating for several hundred years. This made the rather dramatic notice about recent climate change, placed closer to the glacier, rather incongruous. You can pay to go on a trip on a special bus from the visitor centre, right out onto the glacier. We decided not to, as the buses were packed even though they were going up frequently."
Visited in August - walking from the parking lot to the glacier the temperature must have dropped 15-20 degrees - what an experience to see something so vast and ancient and with so much impact to our environment - highly relevant in these times of climate concerns and definitely made a big impact on the kids.
"We chose to park at the bottom and walk up to the glacier. It's a bit of a hike, but well worth it. You walk past markers showing where the glacier's edge USED to be and it's a sobering realization just how much we've affected climate change to see how much the glacier has receded. The view, once you're at the edge is simply amazing. There aren't words to describe just how beautiful nature is at it's best. We may have taken the tour onto the ice itself, but arrived too late in the day. We will definitely be back for the 'full' experience."
"With guests from abroad we were obliged to forego our misgivings and ""do"" the Athabasca Glacier. The bus is large and effective, though people stood up during the steep descent despite signs warning them to stay seated. We could not see forward as a consequence. The driver did nothing. Speaking of which, why are all the staff from Australia and the UK? Aren't there any able bodied Canadians to employ? The parking area achieved, we disembarked to stand on the demarcated dirty surface of the remainder of the glacier (smoke from BC wildfires has dirtied the surface, which also increases melting as the surface absorbs more of the sun's energy). I was saddened by the enormous evidence of shrinkage - it's not new, the glaciers have been shrinking for centuries - and the gloomy prediction of the remainder of the useful life. However, for people who have never seen, or are not able to access these kinds of natural features, it is an interesting outing. Being an enthusiast of mechanical things like aircraft, cars and motorbikes, I would have liked to see a display on the technical aspects of the glacier busses and their engines, transmissions and tires. Logistics at the Interpretive Centre are well handled. Logistics and crowd control at the glacier bus transfer point is messy and poorly executed."
"A combination of warming, polution and wildfire smoke left this a bit underwhelming. Massive yes, but not the prisitine ice you can find in Iceland. So, it's a Canada experience

The Glacier can be seen along the parkway heading south, and you can get a tour from Columbia Icefields Centre to walk on the glacier tounge to the right."
"Car park is opposite the main visitor building. The hike is short but does have a fair bit of snow still (in May) so take layers and good shoes. You hike to the toe of the glacier which is close enough. A lot of people were paying for a double decker bus to take them onto the glacier - this seems so odd to me, the glacier is melting! Carbon emissions from the bus, people walking on it, doesn’t add up to me. Deducted a star for that"
"Beautiful but sad
The glacier itself is beautiful, looking at it from the car park with the mountains surrounding it was quite surreal. I didn't take the bus up onto the glacier (using fossil fuels to add to global warming to speed up the glacier melting? really?) but instead walked along the trail to the edge of it. They have markers showing where the glacier was at particular points from about 1910 onwards, it was interesting seeing how much faster the glacier is disappearing now compared to 100 years ago."
We were with 50 others on a tour of Athabasca Glacier. This is a very good tour snd everyone should see the diminishing glacier which is receding 16 feet a year due to warm temperatures. The artic cats take you to the glacier on slopes up to 33 degrees. It is quite cold on the glacier even when air temperatures are 70+ degrees. The guides are very good and give good descriptions of the glacier and the surrounding area. This is a MUST see while it lasts
"Global warming
Our views were not spectacular because of the burning forest fires. The air is all smoky. Still you should definitely hike up to the edge of the glacier. It is a steep hike but well worth it in explaining global warming and what is happening to our Glacier system. Look for the sign that shows you where the glacier was in1982 compared to now. It is staggering."
"From the moment we saw the ice field in the distance we knew we were in for a very special experience. Special buses took us up to the ice field, driven by knowledgeable and enthusiastic young guides. Being able to walk on the surface of the glacier itself was unbelievable, with many photo opportunities - and the ever-helpful guide was there ready with an arm if anyone seemed in danger of losing their balance. A memory to treasure! It brought home the very real threat of global warming as the glaciers retreat."
"For us the only way we were ever going to stand on a glacier so we had to do it. The skywalk was lumped in as part of the price so no opting out cost wise even if you didn't want to do that part of the tour. 
Our guide Alec was very good and enthusiastic. Full of interesting facts. 
Global warming hits home when you stand on the glacier."
"Step back in time before it's too late
We stopped off at the Columbia ice field as part of our Brewster transfer between Jasper and Banff. This was one of the most memorable experiences of our time in the Canadian Rockies - where else can you walk on a century old glacier? It's very well organised with huge trucks and excellent guides to tell the story - just make sure you wrap up well. Catch it now before it disappears with global warming. Thanks too for a lovely day to our driver and guide on the Brewster transfer who made a long journey fly past with lots of information and their excellent and amusing stories. ."
its a unique place to see an iceberg learn about them and whats actually happening to these in global warming. years of there existence are marked on the ground
"Learnt so much about the glacier it was fascinating and frightening as it shows how global warming is affecting out planet.
Really interesting exhibition in basement of visitor centre.
Gets really busy and important that you book. The visitor centre is very large and gets packed with people.
Going up on to the glacier was really special and the lady driving the very large bus was very informative.
It is chilly whilst up there and surprisingly not as slippery as I was expecting. You stay there about 25 mins before your large bus brings you back ."
"I really can't fault the tour guides / drivers - they did a good job of narrating the drive - and explaining what we were seeing. It just wasn't particularly special when 8 other snow coaches have dumped out their folks to tromp around the same small area. Yes, I can tell my kids first hand that global warming is real. So there's that.. but probably optional for families on a budget."
"This must have been magnificent once, before we humans befouled the planet enough to cause global warming and precipitously melt the glaciers. Shame on us. This is a reminder. Most worthwhile: drink the water at the fountain- pure water probably 1000’s of years old from the glacier."
"If you've not seen an Ice Field before it's worth a visit. The place is right on the highway between Jasper and Banff and convenient stopping place on the highway. The visitor centre is busy and expensive which we missed except for food and a washroom break.

We then moved over the road to the Ice Field car park. It's a short 10-15 minute walk to the a viewing area approximately the American distance away again o the actual Ice Field. Not sure if you can walk on the ice flow itself without being part of a guided tour.

Worth a look and to consider the effect of Global Warming on the planet."
"Global warming
The receding glaciers at 5m per year is a shocking reality and will one day be gone. Compared to 25 years ago when I first visited and subsequently 15 years ago the difference was astounding but still incredible and a must to be seen. I did the skywalk because the bus tour was booked and the wait was 3 1/2 hours. Best time is before noon or after 3pm"
"Stunning experience!, the Glacier has shrunk due to Atmospheric Warming, as you can see from the pics in the Visitor Centre. The actual visit is conducted from specialist vehicles built for the task, so allow a couple of hours, with 40 minutes to explore the Glacier mass & perimeter."
"Global Warming is Making this Recede!
Drive down to the lower parking lot and see where the toe of the glacier was over the years. In order to see where the toe is now you will need to hike about half a mile over the moraine. The changes over teh years is stagering!"
We went there a few years ago. I hadn't been there in over 35 years. I was truly shocked at how much the Ice Field had receded. It used to be up near the highway and now all that is parking lot. Still lots to see and to ride in the Big Ice Field Machines up to the Ice Fields is amazing. You can get out and walk around. Absolutely beautiful. Highly recommend people to take the time to be apart of it all. Global warming is definitely taking over.... A Must See. The date option below doesn't allow me to go back to the actual date so I am putting down June 2017.....
"Global Warming at its worst
Coming back to the Ice Field some 33 years later I was very disappointed, first, as to how much it has receded. and secondly, how commercialized it has become. Global warming has taken such a toil on the icefield because I have pictures that show the face of the glacier looming above you and near to the paved road. It is not as I remember it. Now you have to walk a good distance to the face, and being much older now that walk is not doable for us. The commercialization of such an attraction is disheartening as well. Tourasses all over the place. We did not even attempt to go to the centre as we were there to see the glacier. Pass on by boy when you get there."
"This is worth a stop if you've never actually seen a glacier before. You have to be a bit careful about the propaganda regarding global warming, because the Earth has been warming since the last Ice Age, and glaciers are made of ice, so they melt. Nothing is going to stop this glacier from melting, so go see it before it's gone."
"I first visited this site 10 years ago. I felt a bit sad, as although I visited at the same time of year, the glacier has receded a tremendous amount. Its a big indication of global warming, Its quite a hike to the glacier, and easy to get winded. Parking is crushed gravel and there is not enough of it. Great place to visit, only looses marks due to the parking situation."
"We went on a Brewster - Pursuit group outing from Jasper to the Columbia Ice Fields.
This was during the Jasper Dark Sky Festival. 
It was amazing all the way through.
Our Guide was excellent - providing us with lots of information and history of the area, As part of this event we had cocktails and hors d'oeuvres (some of which were even Gluten Free) , then we went out on the Ice Field in the Crawler and then got out to walk on this amazing piece of Nature - absolutely spectacular. Then we returned to the Ice Field Centre were there was a beautiful and delicious buffet dinner, followed by a presentation conducted by an Astronomer. After this we went out to the Glass Sky Walk - where it was pitch black - to see the night's sky - when the clouds moved out of the way it was breathtaking - so beautiful. There were Telescopes setup. binoculars available to use amazing staff/guides and there was also a warming station, with hot chocolate, coffee and cookies.
Then on our drive back into Jasper we could see the Northern Lights - something that I have always wanted to see.
This trip to the Ice Fields was an event that I signed up to do during the Dark Sky Festival, so these little extras will not be available any other time.
I would recommend a visit to the Columbia Ice Fields even if it is not during the Dark Sky Festival."
"Amazing experience to be right on the glacier and learn about the glacier fields. Go now because by the time your grandchildren want to go, there will be no glaciers due to global warming."
Been here previously in 1955 and again in 1961 and it was disappointing to see how the ice field had retracted over the years. Our guide unto the glacier was excellent and provided a lot of information. Well worth the visit and truly hope global warming will not further impact to any significant degree.
"Stunning opportunity to be walking on the Columbia Ice Field and the associated glaciers. Involves multiple bus transfers in the price to actually motor up to the edge of the glacier. Then are able to walk very carefully on the glacier in certain areas that are safe. This was in September when temps in the cities were in the 80's (unusual). The glacier and the Ice Field is at about 7,000 feet and feels much colder with the wind blowing across the huge area of ice. (The Ice Field itself is about 200 square miles I believe, but you cannot see it all or walk on it all for sure.)
This opportunity is clearly a time to make a change in your trip to visit and experience walking on a glacier. Due to climate change and the warming of the atmosphere driving the loss of the size of the glacier every year, this opportunity may not be there for more than five to ten years.
Recommend highly that you make the time and committment to get here!"
"Shocking and Amazing!
To see the disappearance of a glacier due to global warming is shocking and amazing. Everyone should see this so they can see up close the effects of global warming- no hoax! Go as soon as you can - you never know when it will be gone!"
"Of course the walk is a little more demanding so I understand not everyone can do it but it is a much better experience and I haven't done, nor would I ever do, the bus. Our guide Phil, through Ice Walks, was fantastic and very knowledgeable. This is what he does. Tours of all kinds (helli skiing, glacier walks) and he is an outdoor adventurist. Best kind of guide. Get this hike in before the glacier is gone! It retreats like 30 feet a year and doesn't really advance anymore (but listen to our governments, global warming is a sham...lol). Very sad to see where it was in 1982, last year and in talking with family where it was (the highway) 50+ years ago."
"We had never seen the icefields before, so decided to make the drive from Lake Louise to Jasper primarily to see them. It was pretty shocking to see the markers in the ground that show where the edge of the glacier has been over time, highlighting how it has receded over the last several decades. You can't help but reflect on the impacts of global warming when you see it. However, there are many more beautiful places to see in the Canadian Rockies. We had originally planned on doing the tour that takes you out onto the glacier, but the prices were ridiculously high. And the ""skywalk"" that you see in the pictures isn't actually AT the glacier. Again, there are so many great views and lookout points in the Rockies, I don't think paying to get access to this one represents value for your money. The full tour might make sense if you don't have a car and are getting it as part of a package deal that includes a bus ride from Calgary or some other place. The walking tour with a guide may be a better option too. One final word of caution: the visitors' centre was crazy busy! And the cafeteria was so busy that they had run out of many of the items on their limited menu by 1:30."
"Spent about 30 minutes about the discovery centre today, and it was about 28 minutes too many. 

This place has become a complete tourist trap and was so busy that you could barely walk through the centre and gift shop without being elbowed by someone. 

The glacier has dissipated in the 10 years since we last saw it and we decided it wasn't worth the $90 to take a buggy tour to ""walk on"" the glacier. It's so sad to see the effects that we are having on our environment by not taking global warming seriously. Jasper national park has some amazing places, and I encourage you to explore by car, but do not fall victim to the tourist traps. 

The bathroom had human feeces chunked all over the toilet seat, likely from the common way that some people from other countries squat over a toilet seat instead of using it the way it should be used. I felt so bad for the guys waiting outside to go in and clean the bathroom. The gift shop sold Chapstick for $6, t-shirts for $89 and sweatpants for $60. Needless to say it's a rip off, all for looking at a chunk of dirty snow. 

There are so many other beautiful places in Canada and I encourage you to visit them. I hope that parks Canada can clean this place up and regulate the amount of visitors per day, to make it an enjoyable experience again."
"Global warming is definitely not a hoax. Our glaciers are receding significantly. So, better now than later. They are not magnificent any more because they are melting away. The walkable area is limited. It is understandable for the sake of preserving the glaciers and our safety. 

The icefield centre did not manage the buses properly. The 9:30AM bus was behind the schedule pushing our 10AM bus to later time. There was no announcement whatsoever. They just left people waiting in the line for a long time assuming everybody has no other schedules. It is not professional. 

After visiting the glaciers, everybody was sent to the bus station to wait for the transfer to the Skywalk. Same thing, waiting for a long time without explanation. People asked the coordinator. The answer was the bus was broken and they had to pull in another one. Strangely, 15 mins later, we were asked to get on that broken bus which was right in front of us for over half an hour. broken or not broken??"
"If you don't mind a tourist attraction, this is a an easy way to get up close to a glacier. This company is a well oiled machine. They have quite the system. You can purchase a combination ticket to go out on a sky walk, boat ride, and the Banff Gondola. During peak season, this is extremely busy, but well organized. On the glacier, you will only be able to walk in a very small area. There are a lot of people. You have about 20 to 25 minutes on the glacier. This is a great photo opportunity. We waited about 15 minutes on the glacier to take our family photos because of the crowds. We brought an empty water bottle and filled it with glacier water. This adventure is very touristy so beware of that. If you are sensitive to the environment and receding glaciers, you may want to skip this. If you believe in man made global warming, driving huge buses and thousands of people onto a glacier should make you upset."
"Take your time and take a walk to see way up to the big glaciers.
At the rate the world is warming due to over-population these glaciers will
not be here in 50 years.. So better get while the getting is good.
Too many people on Earth now. Globe is warming up and changing 
natural features. We could be doomed."
"For those in denial of global warming this is a difficult place to visit and maintain that view. In less than 100 years at the present rate of regression there will no longer be a glacier in the Rockies. What remains currently is stunning and well worth the visit. 

The ""visitors centre"" is actually a ticket office for the corporation taking visitors on overpriced tours of the glacier and the blatantly touristy, somewhat industrial ""skywalk"" over the valley leading to the glacier. If you would like information from the small Parks Canada desk don't arrive before 10am. 

If you want to see the glacier just pull up in the car park below the glacier and walk up the path to the viewing area below the glacial river and lake outflow. There are a few small companies that offer guided walking tours onto the glacier (the only safe way to walk onto it and a lot less damaging than the numerous special bus tours available from the ""visitors centre"")."
"This will be a unique trip to most people. This is not yet another hike, or another beautiful landscape to photograph. This is a bus ride onto the top of a disappearing entity. They hold you to the time you requested for the bus ride and so better make sure you're on time. 

The day we went it was raining and they almost cancelled out on us. So, bear that in mind as well. Who knew it was gonna rain in July?? But they made us do the skywalk tour first and then the bus ride. 

They let you spend 1/2 hr on top of the glacier but that 1/2 hr goes by fast. We drank one of the purest water ever and even brought back some in a bottle. It gets freezing cold up there so carry a thick jacket with you if its not sunny. Checkout the picture I posted, the glacier is receding fast. But what is weird is that they did not once mention 'global warming' as the reason for its receding. I guess the reason is obvious."
"We drove for one hour and fifteen minutes from our hotel in Jasper, luckily found a black bear on the way roaming near the road and kids loved it. You pass the glacier skywalk before reach the Columbia Ice field Discovery Center, although the skywalk was highly recommended by our Conceirge but except the glass floor which gives shivers to some nothing to write home about it and luckily we saved both time and money. There is ample parking at the discovery center and in summer the operate till 6pm and we got our tickets on the spot but I will advise advance Booking. First we boarded a regular bus that took us to the base camp which is like a kilometer from Discovery Center, there we boarded a special bus with High wheelbase and the amazing journey started. It takes you down the steepest road in North America with a 35 degree descent. On the way down,You can tell the glacier is melting fast unfortunately due to global warming. After a kilometer long but a slow ten minutes ride we reach the glacier and disembarked. Its breathtaking once you come out and don't forget to take empty water bottles so you can bring home some at source glacial water. It's really dangerous on the glacier so you have to walk slowly one step at time and stay away from marked holes and within the boundary and hold the hands of younger children all the time. We were allowed to spend around 10-15 minutes but it was more than enough before anxiety starts to bother one."
"For a centre that informs us that global warming and climate change have seen this glacier reduce so significantly, that at current rates it will be gone by 2100 - they don't seem to have an issue contributing to the problem by running bus after bus back and forth, having people walking on the glacier and running bus after bus back and forth to the skywalk (waste of money, don't bother)
The glacier is stunning, it's sad to see how much it's receded - but don't contribute to its demise all for the sake of the"
"Interesting to see, a great tour, but makes you really think about global warming. Great view of the glaciers and of the valley. A must see when you are traveling in the area"
"We had really bad weather, so very cold, almost no sight. Normally you visit the glacier and you can take a short walk on the ice. The sights are not enormous, but remember, in 30 years or so it is gone due to global warming. This is your change to see a glacier!"
"This is a ""must-experience"" for many reasons, the most obvious being the startling grandeur and splendour of this magnificent ares. The second reason is to see for yourself how the great glaciers – especially Athabasca Glacier – has receded over the past 150 years, giving unmistakeable proof of global warming. It used to be a raw place to visit with few amenities and some of us liked it that way, but now it is efficient and civilized: you can get up on the glacier easily by paying a fare, though they don't take you high enough to see the actual icefields. For that you might need to climb Mt Athabasca as I did nearly 40 years ago. Caution, this area is highly congested traffic-wise, and you are asked not to feed the often-numerous wildlife (especially bighorn sheep) that still come down to graze by the road. Snowstorms can suddenly appear out of nowhere."
"Been there a few times and each time I am amazed at the experience. Ice thousands of years old and 200 meters thick is not something one would find anywhere. I suggest purchasing the tickets to go on the snowbus that takes you to the middle of the glacier where you can get out, walk around, and drink the meltwater (the water's really cold!). Or park at the base of the glacier and walk up to the the toe of it. Global warming has melted the glacier in the past decades and it has receded quite a bit. it is unsafe to go beyond the roped off areas and go on the ice yourself. You can fall into crevasses and serious injuries can result. Stay off the ice at the toe of the glacier and just enjoy it before it is gone. It is the only public easily-accessible glacier in the Rockies."
"Why mixed emotions? This is obviously one of the world's great attractions but having seen how much the glacier has retreated in the last century and with all the research concerning global warming I felt uncomfortable being transported out to the glacier on vehicles that were belching out fumes as well as huge numbers of tourists (myself included) to walk for a few moments on this ever shrinking attraction. It is an enormous commercial venture and I felt that I was part of the exploitation. Really not very eco..... however, that said, it is a truly amazing sight."
"Disappointed
The ice field has recessed way back. Don't spend 80CDN to go out on the ice. One can park across from the center and walk up to the ice I believe, I didn't. I tried not to have a high expectation since I have been inside a ice glacier in the Alps. It was sad because they had the heavy equipment out on the ice when it was raining lightly destroying the ice more. In time it will not be there - and no it's not global warming, just evolution - people just helping it along!"
"I wouldn't bother paying the expensive fees to be taken onto this ice field so you can stand there and go 'it's an ice field' just look at it from the road for free. It's a bit ironic really, there's a big hoo ha about the ice field retreating and blaming global warming whilst there are hundreds of gas guzzling vehicles to the car park and people trampling all over it!"
"The Athabascar glacier is a must see. The glacier is much shorter due to global warming. Everyone can enjoy the view whether from the Icefield Visitor Centre, hiking to the tongue of the glacier or paying for a trip to walk on the glacier."
"Climate change, a realisation!
My wife and I visited the ice field on 13/09. We were on a Rocky Mountaineer tour with Brewsters, so once our driver had secured our tickets, we were transported up to the SnoCoach terminal and were soon being directed to one of specially built coaches.

We were transported on to the glacier on coach 543, which was driven by Connor. He did a wonderful job of explaining the geology and science of the area, the glaciers, plus the development and performance characteristics of the coach.

It's when you discover where the ice was in 1840 (the location of the centre by the Icefields Parkway) and how 2 other glaciers (including the one coming off Mt Andromeda) used to feed into the main Athabasca one, that you realise how much climate change and global warming has effected our planet.

We were allowed to step off the bus and explore the safe area that had been marked out for visitors to get the feel of a glacier beneath their feet.

Although it is very commercialised and regimented, this attraction offers us 'non-explorer' types the opportunity to walk on a glacier and to learn how it has been created and moves.

Safety tip - please make sure you take some warm clothes, decent shoes, sunglasses and sunscreen."
"Shocking
If yon need a shocking realtime revelation of the effects of Global Warming this stop needs to be on your reality check list."
"Very well organised up to ice but lots of people walking around I stepped into a hole in the ice which was melting, some holes had signs but ithers did not. Best to stay in the group and dont do it by yourself as the ice field has plenty of deep cracks sorry to say it will only last another 30 years due to global warming, well worth a visit."
"Reveals NATURE'S WONDER and HUMANS' IMPACT
Another Rocky Mountain must-see. It reveals the story of the receding glaciers over time and makes you reconsider your doubt of global warming."
"My family enjoyed the visit to the Columbia Ice Field. We took the ice explorer to the glacier and walked around for a bit... it appeared the area that is safe to walk is smaller then the last time I was there... perhaps the time of year. It is a bit sad to see how far the ice receded over the years. I am glad I was able to take my family to see it before global warming does what it does. Our tickets included the glass walkway, which extends out over the highway about 1 km above the ground. It is fun watching people nervously walk on the glass floor. Overall, a good experience."
"Evidence of warming climate
The glacier has greatly receded since my first visit in 1982. Unable to walk on glacier due to melt water creek across the glacier toe - unless a tour is purchased. The hike was not as much fun as previous years but a learning experience for all."
"Mind blowing
How else can one describe the opportunity to stand atop a glacier?
True enough, it isn't cheap, but sadly few amazing natural wonders are not exploited in some way or other nowadays. In defence of the exploiters, 
- they do provide a pretty decent service to and from the glacier in rather specialised and expensive vehicles
- it would be almost impossible for the vast majority to access this magnificent natural wonder without them.

It was our third visit, spanning 18 years, and yes the glacier is noticeably shrinking even to our untrained eyes. Whether by global warming or other means. They say it may have decades left before it's gone. 

If you choose to visit, get there EARLY. The gates open at 9.00, be there as early as possible to avoid the hordes who descend from 10.00am onwards.

Oh, and wear something that will keep your feet warm and keep you dry if a hail storm blows in. It is a glacier after all. It's astonishing to see the number of short wearing sandal clad numpties stepping out onto the ice and having to immediately retreat back to the Snowcoaches to avoid frostbitten extremities.

NB - it's worth booking the glacier skywalk as a combo with the glacier trip. You are shuttled to and from the skywalk after the glacier trip."
"I should have read the sign at the bottom more carefully, the one that said you can't walk on the glacier anymore because of excessive melting (due to global warming). So I hiked up the large hill - at high elevation - only to get a closer look at the glacier, not to touch it. Then I had to make my way down that same large hill. Unless you like to hike just for fun, it's not worth the climb. Save your knees and look at photos. Or pay for the bus trip onto the glacier."
"Everything about this experience was fantastic. The coach drivers set the scene, the £1.3 million trucks that took us to the Glacier added to the excitement especially going up and down the steep gradients and finally being on the glacier with all its history and sheer magnitude makes you feel very small. The global warming can be clearly seen here and this area makes you feel very pensive. A word of warning to people with joint problems there is a risk of falling. Don't worry about the price just do it you may never get the chance again."
"See It Now, Before It's Gone
I last visited the ice field in 1970, when it extended at least a mile or more beyond its current edge and was sturdy enough to support snowcat vehicles full of tourists, long since replaced by buses with ""monster truck"" type tires and a far more limited range.There are signs along the trail pointing out the furthest extension of the ice, by year. It was, frankly, a great disappointment to see how much has been lost due to decades of warming climate, and I fear that, like Glacier National Park in the US (where all glaciers are likely to have melted by 2030), these glaciers will disappear as well and we will all be the poorer for it.

All that said, it is worth a stop to experience what remains. The trail is steep in places, and it's rocky enough to make sturdy shoes with ankle support desirable (although you can make it in sneakers if you're careful about choosing your way). Public access is somewhat limited, so if you want to hike deeper into the ice field, it will be necessary to book a guided tour, something we did not have the time or foresight to do but you may wish to give it a try. There's a booth where I think you can book a guided tour right near the trail head, although that may require a wait, and there may be another one at the Discovery Center nearby.

Without a guide, a requirement for deeper exploration due to the fragility of the remaining ice, you'll still be able to learn some useful information by reading the signs posted along the way. They'll help you understand the natural processes at work here and also clue you in as to the plants and animals who still make their homes here.

I assume that a visit to the the Columbia Ice Field's Discovery Center would be an even better aid to understanding, but it was so crowded we couldn't find a parking space. Moreover, to me, the most important thing is to SEE and to EXPERIENCE directly this unique, vanishing landscape. I especially enjoyed observing all the flat black rocks with vertical scratches made by the glacier, probably as it retreated. It is awesome to imagine the immense forces at play here, and it gives one increased respect for Mother Nature. I wanted to run my fingers through the grooves to touch, literally, the power of the retreating glacier and imagine it as I saw it in what now seem like ""glory days"" 46 years ago.

The bottom line: the ice fields will not be here forever, so be sure to see them now, and take your children and grandchildren too, if you have any and can give them such a marvelous adventure."
"The Ice is Melting
I've been in ice fields before, but with global warming, this one is really becoming sad. It's WAY over-toured, and is melting beyond belief as you watch it."
"Victim of Global warming.
The Icefields parkway is by itself worth a drive (or a bike ride). Sadly the Icefields have receded quite a bit and are not longer as impressive as they once were."
"Once in a lifetime...especially now with global warming!
We visited the glacier because it seemed like a neat thing to do but more so because we didn't know if we would ever have another chance!

The idea that you are standing on ice from an ice age thousands of years ago is incredible and weighty. If you focus on that fact then the drinking of the glacial water and imagining the icefield beyond are quite moving experiences. 

However, the actual logistics of the visit are very fast-paced and you feel like you are just a number in this big, touristy machine. 

I also was not a huge fan of the driver/tour guide's approach which was to tell self-deprecating jokes (about getting a date), or talking about the truck/busses they use on the snow/glacier rather than teaching us about glaciers and this one in particular. 

If you are not deterred by the cost, this is a must do while in Jasper. But try hard to think about the significance of where you are rather than the tourist feel all around."
"This is a small piece of glacier, very close to the highway, You take their bus and then a special bus with very high wheels and big treads. First you go through hilly mud road, which gets quite steep at places. Then you drive over the glacier for a short time, get off, walk around view the beautiful scenery. But, I think this tour does not really support the global warming and environmental protection plans of Canada since these monstrous, gas guzzling vehicles with their hot exhausts will melt away the glaciers quickly."
"lovely to visit the receding glacier. was once covered by forest (so much for man-made global warming) and then the glacial ice encroached. now it's receding again. you'll need to set aside a couple of hours for this at least. they have tied in the new ""skywalk"" tour and have added the cost to the excursion. so be prepared to pay $80 pp. even if you don't do the skywalk. they say that this site may not be here in 70 years so it was definitely worth it."
"The ice field from the road is actually quite unattractive. As the ice recedes and we move away from the last ice age the debris of glacial weight us all that is left on the barren field. 

A remarkable illustration of global warming whether you believe this is a result of mans ignorance and industrial pollutants or the simple cyclic effect of nature over million of years we are definitely getting warmer. Truth is I guess is a combination of the normal warming cycle we are in and have been since the last ice age accelerated by mankind's wilful destruction of our resources (greed) but hey we'll never stop that. Nature will win when's she's had enough and that WILL be a big shout."
To be able to ride out and walk out on these glaciers is an amazing experience. Watch out for the crevaces! Not too sure about global warming after being here!
"interesting but melting
The toe of the glacier is definitely melting. You can see the signs where is was in the sixties and where it is today. Global warming. Not good."
"global warming..... you'll see it here
whilst not the most exciting place in the world, too mean to pay to actually go on what's left of the glacier. But park and walk up to the edge and note with despair how far the glacier has receded over the years, they have marker posts. A sobering experience."
FAscinating journey on unique vehicles to a once in a lifetime experience. Our driver on the trip up the glacier Keifer was informative and witty. Shows the real effects of global warming.
"One of the interesting or maybe more aptly put concerning details about the Glacier is its rate of retreat. Our first visit to the Ice Fields was in 1990, then in 2003 and now Sept 2015. It's quite alarming to see the difference. The markers than indicate where the edge of the glacier was on the specified years gives you a sense of how the retreat of the Glacier has accelerated over the decades i.e. Global Warming. 

From the parking area to the edge of the glacier is now quite a hike compared to how close you could get in 1990. in 2003 we did the Brewster tour that took you out onto the ice with those huge ballooned tired buses, the road along the glacier has changed a lot since then. 

The mounds of gravel and rock that has been left from the Glaciers retreat presents a bit of a hike to get over the hill to close in on the actual glacier. 

I wonder how far back the edge will be in another 25 years?"
"Impressive shrinking glacier
Accessed by some enormous specialised vehicles. Bitterly cold wind. Interesting but disturbing insight into glacial history and effect of global warming"
This stop is a high point of the journey along the Icefields Parkway. This large glacier sits just off the road and a short hike takes you to its mouth. Parks Canada has sign-posted the reach of this retreating glacier over the past century and clearly demonstrates the effects of the warming climate we are facing.
"My wife and I were driving on the highway through the ice fields and we were amazed at how much you can see from the highway. So we frequently stopped to take pictures of the ice fields, each stop giving us a different vantage point. Part of the excitement in seeing the ice fields is realizing how massive they are. I can't help but think that we should see them now before they become even smaller. It brings the problem of global warming to the forefront."
"Evidence of climate warming
Remembering when we could see the fields right to the highway. Now long lines of mostly international visitors patiently waiting to see what is left A money maker but best they can do to show what Canadians once had as a natural beauty"
"Arrived to find that we should have made a reservation in advance for our Icefield Adventure...I should have known that since it is prime tourist season.
The most disappointing thing for our family was that only 3-4 year markers remain intact to signify where the glacier has receded from since a certain year. I would think the Park staff should be aware the signs are missing and should be eager to replace them to show the devastating effect global warming has had on this particular area....a teaching moment missed by the thousands who visit."
"It was both cool and tragic to see the ice fields up close. The cool part is obvious: this is an ice field that has been around since the beginning of time and it is just breathtaking to be able to be lucky enough to see such a sight.
The tragic part is seeing how much the ice fields have receded--decreased in size, and even more tragic that it has happened so quickly. It speaks for itself on the effects of global warming. While we were standing taking pictures, there was a constant sound of avalanches...so the ice fields are literally receding as we speak."
"A bus ride to the ice field is really cool and you are transferred from the visitors center on to the special vehicle which will take you over to the ice field. You are given about 20 minutes in a limited space to walk over the ice, take pictures and them return in the same bus. The entire journey take about just over an hour. It is sad to see that the top of the ice sheets are barely white due to pollution but the driver who was also giving the commentary was really good and well informed maintained that compared to the other effects of global warming the running of the buses over the glacier did not create any great harm. You may need a very light jacket in summer if you are susceptible to the cold"
"Columbia icefield ... a glacier for millions of years and covering about 250 square KMs ( as informed by our guide), is just awesome. Just can not believe that suddenly the entire icefield have come to an end and you can see the hard rocks all around..if you are good at your imagination, just think of, before the ""global warming"" started, how beautiful the glacier and icefield was and how difficult it was to travel to the ice-field. The explorers were too good to be engineered and gives you enough comfort of safety, even on one of the steepest slopes, you have ever dare to travel. Wish that I could see this magnificent glacier, in it's original beauty, few thousands of years back !!"
"Frightening
Not the place, but the fact that the Icefield has retreated so far in such a short space of time. The views, like everywhere in the Rockies, is stunning but it makes you wonder about the global warming situation when you actually see the retreat of this glacier. Take in this view before its too late"
"This is a stop on the route between Calgary and Jasper in Alberta, Canada. It is sad to see the glacier retreating at a rapid pace, but the area is proud of what remains of its glacier and is more than happy to have you visit it on their supplied especially outfitted buses right out onto the glacier itself for a true photo opportunity. It is a short visit, but a worthwhile one to see a glacier up close and to actually stand on one. This will convert you to the need to prevent global warming, if any experience can. It's truly enjoyable."
"Dissapointing
For something that is part of a National Park this visitor center has nothing to offer. It reminded us of a third rate ski warming lodge in the old days. There was little or no information on the ice fields. We have been to Hawaii's Volcano National Park where there was a wonderful center with all sorts of interesting information. Same with Mt Rainier and Mt St Helens in Washington state. It seems that at the Ice fields the only focus is to have people take the tour run by a private company. For shame Canada"
"Fortunate to see the ice fields in real where many only can see in pictures. Wonderful natural creation where melted blue and white snow starts the river which travels over 5000 kms to Arctic sea. Skilled drivers of the purpose built bus explained the facts about this natural creation and you can see what is the Global warming is with your own eyes. The areas of melted snow is so many kms long where now you have to travel so far to see the fields. Surrounded by snow capped mountains, weather stormed trees which grows only sideways and washed down pebbles this attraction is moneys worth."
"Let's start with the distance from where you park to where the glacier has receded to due to global warming. It's far! Bring your hiking boots/shoes. Also, dress warm. The wind seems to whip through the area and send a chill up your spine. The path is a lot of rocks and what-not so don't expect and groomed trail or paved path. But in its defence there is something incredibly rewarding for those brave enough to make the trek. Imagine seeing a glacier that may not exist in another hundred years. It's a chance to see something that is remarkably natural (but is dying)."
"When considering atmospheric warming and the shrinking of ice fields and glaciers in the Northern Hemisphere this is a graphic example with suitable signposting and notices on what's left of the glacier (still quite a lot but nothing like there was 100 years ago) showing the points lower down the mountainside the ice reached in previous years. 
There are also icefield tours in some kind of bus as well as guided hikes across the ice. These are unlikely to be helping the situation greatly.
This is a much visited attraction with its own tourist centre on the other side of the highway with associated catering and masses of bus tours calling in.
All said, the glacier and surrounds are still spectacular but nothing like their undoubted appearance from decades gone by."
How often will you have the chance to walk on a glacier within a few minutes of getting out of your car? This is a really well run and interesting excursion that gives some sense of scale of the Columbia Icefield and Athabasca Glacier - as well as the impact of global warming in the extent the glacier has receded. Well worth it.
"We walked up the glacier, in full winter gear and crampons, in the middle of the summer. It was cold, but also very cool. The guide was informative. The glacier itself was surreally beautiful, a plant-free sloping field of mini-ice-dunes riven with snow-melt streamlets, set between rocky bluffs and in the shadow of the looming glacier above. The sad part was the Global Warming piece: the glacier has markings indicating how quickly, and how far, the glacier has receded. This thing will disappear in our childrens' lifetime if we don't fix this!!"
"Global warming as evidence
Interesting walk to the glacier but not fully accessible without a paid guide; parking can be a challenge"
"It's melting fast...
We are so lucky!, with the global warming we are helping to generate, we are very fortunate to see what the bottom of a glacier looks like. Columbia ice field is going fast. I’ve been there 6 years ago and last weekend. The melting rate is scary."
"I was expecting field of Ice and then, the impressive part is to see how far you have to go to actually see the glacier. Global warming is not just a theory : it's quite obvious here !
So it used to be a very big glacier, but in a way, not so much anymore...
So that's good to know before maybe ?"
"A trip onto the glacier, definitely recommended. Just makes you aware of what global warming is doing to our planet."
"To walk on the Columbia Ice Field (Athabasca Glacier) puts the ""awe"" in awesome. The depth of the ice and the expanse make you feel so small. You also feel sad that global warming is reducing the size of this magnificent natural wonder."
"When you see how fast this ice field is receding it shows how global warming is living geography.
The bit I didn't like was the 'tour buses' that go up the left side of the lateral moraine and access onto the Athabasca glacier itself, this cannot help the glacier and in my view is tourism at its worst
The walk from the car park at the toe of the glacier to get the views is not strenuous and if you really want to walk on it ( why?) then join a guided walk!
It's a must to see as it won't be so easily viewable for your grandchildren!"
"Good to see the tangible proof of global warming
Visited en route to Banff down the Icefields Parkway. Parking is free and there are lots of signs informing you about the glaciers receding, not to stand on the 'toe' and other dangers. There are also year markings telling you how much the glacier has thawed over the last 120yrs or so. I think what is required is perhaps a ranger or two's presence to answer any questions and also to keep an eye on the idiots who cross the barriers in search of a good photo. We saw one bloke blithely cross the ropes to get pictures whilst his kids watched from the main path. Why the rules didn't apply to him I don't know but it's no wonder accidents/deaths happen. Anyway, despite this we found it interesting, informative and worrying that a glacier can recede so much in a relatively short space of time thanks to global warming. If seeing that doesn't make you switch things off when you're not using them, nothing will."
Took this tour and we were not disappointed. It was well organised with great guides once you are on the glacier. They take you part the way up in a coach then they transfer you onto a 6 wheeled ice vehicle which is so much fun. The glacier is spectacular and with the information from the guide you can appreciate the part global warming has on this magnificent glacier. Bit cold so wear a few layers. You can walk around by yourself and the ice looks amazing. There is a huge visitor centre there with restaurants etc.
"We traveled up to the icefield/glacier in one of the large ice explorers up a steep mountain to the bottom of the glaciers. We were allowed to get out of the vehicle and walk on the 1000 year old blue glacial ice. Amazing, but slippery and wet so watch your step! It is very obvious to see how the glaciers are melting/receding. Global warming or??? I wonder how long Canada will allow these tours as each tour does a little more damage to the glacier. Glad for the chance to experience this now before it is too late!"
"Shock and Awe
You should never drive by the Athabasca Glacier, which is what you see from the road and is commonly referred to as the Columbia Icefields. We have a young family and so found the bus to expensive and the hike too long but let me say the 2km walk around the toe of the glacier is just phenomenal. Even more so are the signs that are laid out telling you about glacier, and about how far and how fast it is receding. For all those that think about global warming, this alone is an education and my kids, who will come to their own conclusions in time, at least are able to comprehend what it means when they hear about global warming. More shocking to me was the consistent signed about the dangers of walking on the glaciers, the amount of failed rescues and loss of childrens life. I guess I really didn't understand how dangerous glaciers could be even if you just walked on the first few meters ... yet there were plenty of people jumping the barriers and doing just that. Perhaps I will end where I should have began ... the glacier itself. It is stunningly beautiful. It is huge (though smaller than it once was) and it is melting a steady stream of an icy cold water flowing into a lake. You can see where it has deposited rocks, you can see where it has made rock as smooth as glass and you can see blue ice sparkling below some of the rock deposits. I will end where I started ... you should not drive by this wonder under any circumstance !"
"The Icefields Parkway is epic and seeing the Columbia glacier spilling down and having easy access to hike to the toe of the glacie is an absolute highlight. It is an easy interpretative trail, well, it goes up but propel yourself knowing that you will be in awe when you reach the top. I think the markers that show how quickly this glacier is receding is also amazing, to global warming human caused or natural?"
A great experience! Even family with young children could walk on the glacier. Take the opportunity sooner as the icefield is disappearing with the global warming. The driver/guide's introduction and direction delivered with his humor adding fun to the tour. 
A must place to visit if you are in the Rockies. It is here that you get to know what the Global Warming is all about.Every year the Glacier is going inside by 15 Meters. The Bun in which they take us inside is beautiful..... Th roughly enjoyed the visit.
"Geological Proof of Global Warming
Do not miss this attraction. It is very easy to get to. There are markers to show from various years just how far the glacier has receded. This is very instructional. There are explanations and detailed information of the history of the glacier"
"The Icefields are a unique experience, both amazing and disturbing to see how much of the glacier is gone due to global warming and pollution. I recommend taking the Icefield Adventure Experience and also hiking the glacier on the trails. It is spectacular."
"Very interesting to learn about icefields and glaciers (check out the visitor centre). Lots of tourists teeming about, but enough space for everyone. Worth it to do the short hike through the forefield, where it is very rocky and where the glacier used to be. Lots of signs that say not to walk on the glacier, I stood on the very edge and grabbed my photo shot. With global warming, phenomenoms like this won't be around forever."
"The Icefields Centre is simply a retail opportunity. We did not have time to wait for the next viewing of the movie so,learned nothing new concerning glaciation. There were no information boards giving information on glaciers, their formation and the effects of climate change etc. 
An opportunity missed."
"Warm ice
Aside from the effects of climate change melting the glacier by 15 metres a year, the tour guide added warmth and charm to his informative presentation. We learned many more facts about glaciers, too. Bring a warm jacket because it’s chilly up high on the glacier. Well worth the cost."
"If you do not believe in climate change visit the ice fields.
What a fantastic tour. We started off on a very informative bus ride to the ice buggies. The buggy ride in its self was worth the fare. Especially the hill leading onto the glacier. The time on the glacier even with all the other tourists made you realise how small man is and just how much damage we are doing to our environment. 
Then off to the viewing platform. We saw six big horn sheep and seven mountain goats. Make sure we save our national parks. 

Staff was fantastic.

layered dress as we went from 30 degrees Celsius to 5 degrees with 50 km hr wind to rain in three hours. Dress for it or suffer accordingly."
How wonderful to see a glacier so close. With so many glaciers shrinking due to climate change it was great to see one so close up. Everyone should stop here on their drive up the Ice Fields Parkway.
"I think I first read about the Athabasca Glacier 40 years ago and finally visited today. Amazing glacier up close. This is VERY CROWDED so here’s some tips: 

There are 3 free parking lots, (1) small at the start of the moraine piles and the longest hike to get to the glacier, rocky, (2) at the start of the hike up to the glacier, and (3) a large one across the highway. (1) and (2) are small and you will be lucky to park there on a crowded day. (2) and (3) have porta-potties. (2) if the lot is full, you can park on the side of the road. 

The other large parking lot belongs to the lodge that also provides tours *on* and to the actual glacier ice field; if you walk from one of the free trails you will not be able to actually walk on or touch the glacier; if you want to walk on and touch the glacier you need to book a tour. 

There’s helpful signage on the trail up there, talking about the receding amount, etc. because of “climate change”. There’s a sign that shows where the glacier tongue was in 1982. But they also amusingly point out the receding/melting started 10,000 years ago, so maybe not man-caused??!!"
"We were there on July 5th, luckily, we got a beautiful sunny day. we were told it has been raining for 7days before that day. The glaciers were stunning beautiful, not very cold on the ice. The tour guide, named Patrick Hoffman, hopefully spelled correctly, was very knowledgeable and funny guy, he gave us a wonderful tour. Highly recommended, once in life experience. With global climate gets warmer and warmer, you never know when it will be disappeared. The ticket is a little bit expensive, but totally worth it. Sky walk is a big bonus."
"Be warned this place gets busy in spring / summer with tourists and Ice Explorers going up & down to the Ice Field approx. every 30 mins. Everything runs like clockwork with the Ice Explorer guides/drivers providing informative commentary on the environmental history, climate change impact as well as a good dose of humour on the way to & from the Ice Field. The explorer ride itself was exciting due to the steep hilly nature of the terrain and we even managed to spot some mountain goats.

The actual stop on the Ice field is limited to 15 mins and we were advised not to drink the glacial run off water as it's not as clean as suggested.The Ice Field is huge, stretching over a vast area and the glaciers amazing. 

You'll struggle to get a photo opportunity without other tourists being in your photo but a camera is a must none the less. I'd advise wearing layers/possibly light rainwear because once on the Ice Field the temperature drops and the wind can be biting. You need to be independently mobile and wear sturdy footwear with good grip as the Ice Field is obviously a bit slippy.

I'm pleased i've had the opportunity to have this experience during the shoulder-season as I might not have enjoyed it as much in the peak spring/summer tourist season."
"Definitely a sign of the changing climate
I was here as a child it is amazing just how much of the glacier has disappeared in the last 50 or so years.
what was once a very short walk to the glacier toe is now a substantial hike over a large hill.
Everyone should see this in action.
You can take part in a guided walk on the glacier for a charge."
"See it before it all melts!
I'd visited the Columbia Ice Field as a child back in the 1960s and last year I was shocked when we stopped there at how far back the glacier had melted!! Climate change is really happening and it may not be long before these amazing works of Nature are no longer around to explore and contribute to our water supply. It was really windy the day we were there but we hiked up the trail to the toe of the glacier to watch the melting water that eventually runs into the local river. The immensity of this natural phenomenon is truly worth seeing when in the area."
"My sister and I visited the Columbia Ice Field while on a tour. It was an amazing experience! The driver Sean was such a pleasure. He didn’t just repeat a script, the way he spoke you can tell that he truly loves what he does. When a tour guide has that attitude, it makes the guests excited about it too. He told a a lot about the ice field, the climate, the terrain and even the vehicles used. It was only an hour but there was so much packed into it."
"I glimpse in the reality of our climate
It’s a really incredible experience, but one to leave you sad as well, considering how fast the ice is receding. We parked on the bottom and walked up, be sure to wear good shoes and bring a jacket!"
"We parked at the glacier car park (on the other side of the road to the main park centre). The car park gets quite full but we did manage to jag a spot immediately. The walk up from there to the bottom of the glacier is quite steep and takes 10-20 mins at least depending on how you feel. It can also be a bit slippery with loose gravel and rocks. On the way, note the signs that show where the glacier was in the recent past - and some people say there is no climate change? It may be for normal, natural, cyclical reasons but the glacier is definitely receding.
I found it interesting to see the scratches on the rock from where the glacier had moved over it.
As it is a reasonably hard walk up to the glacier, there are fewer people there than you might have expected from seeing how busy the centre is across the road.
It was quite a cold day when we were there and noticeably colder at the glacier than down in the car park so rug up regardless and be prepared."
"This is the third time I've been out on the glacier and it never fails to wow and educate me. I feel it's a 'must do' if in the area. Our guides were excellent as always, friendly, informative and they really try hard to make the trip memorable for you. 
This time we also went on the Sky Walk and I was somewhat underwhelmed by this, next time (because there will be a 'next time') I will just stick to the glacier. 
It's certainly not cheap, and it can get super busy, so pick your time carefully, but I still feel it's worth it. And if it causes just some of the people who visit to think more about their climate change footprint, then it's worth it's weight in gold (or trees which will end up being more valuable)."
When you see the signs indicating where the Glacier was in 1835 you get a sense of the immensity of this incredible natural wonder . At the same time you see how climate change has an impact on our environment ....scary and beautiful . No need to pay for a bus on yo the Glacier itself if you're on a budget: you can walk right up to the edge for free:)
"Our family group enjoyed (very much) our tour of the Athabasca Glacier with Peter and his adorable dog, George. It was informative, beautiful, and other-worldly, and we could really understand better the effects of climate change! Thank you, Peter!"
"Stunning opportunity to be walking on the Columbia Ice Field and the associated glaciers. Involves multiple bus transfers in the price to actually motor up to the edge of the glacier. Then are able to walk very carefully on the glacier in certain areas that are safe. This was in September when temps in the cities were in the 80's (unusual). The glacier and the Ice Field is at about 7,000 feet and feels much colder with the wind blowing across the huge area of ice. (The Ice Field itself is about 200 square miles I believe, but you cannot see it all or walk on it all for sure.)
This opportunity is clearly a time to make a change in your trip to visit and experience walking on a glacier. Due to climate change and the warming of the atmosphere driving the loss of the size of the glacier every year, this opportunity may not be there for more than five to ten years.
Recommend highly that you make the time and committment to get here!"
"Great stop en route from Banff to Jasper, you can't miss it. We joined the last tour of the day, which minimised the number of people up on the glacier, and the light was beautiful. Tried to ignore the irony of traversing a rapidly receding glacier in a massive gas guzzling monster truck. The guides skirted round the thorny issue of climate change as skillfully as they maneuvered the truck down the 2nd steepest unpaved road in North America. All that aside, it's a wonderful thing to see, and the lovely people at the centre let us park our RV in their car park for free overnight. Yes, I know, an RV... that glacier doesn't stand a chance"
"With climate change in full force, this ice field will only be around for at most 10 years. Given it feeds about 5 glaciers, those will go soon, as well. Purchase a ticket on line before showing up to get a time you want. Its will take 3-4 hours if you do both the ice field tour and the sky walk."
"First of all, if you know in advance you want to do this, make online reservations ahead of time otherwise you may have to wait several hours to get on the next tour. 

Get there at least 15 mins before your tour. 

I love the way the drivers are assigned to the buses. You do not get the same bus driver throughout your tour. It works like clockwork. Extremely well done. 

The first bus takes you to the ice field drop off. It's a 7 minute drive. 

You get off the bus and wait about 5 mins to get on the big busses that go into the glacier. It takes 15 mins for the trip there. They are big rigs that have a special engine that can take you down the steep hill to the glacier. Very cool. 

Once on the glacier you get approximately 30 minutes of ""ice time"" which is sufficient. It was great. Took lots of pictures. Have a better understanding of why our glaciers are retreating/melting. Did you know you need an ice age for the glaciers to grow? Or even stay the same size? I believe in climate change but the reason the glaciers are melting are not due to climate change. If it's not cold all the time, the ice is going to melt. Just saying. 

Wear proper footwear. If you can believe it, women with flip flops went on this tour. Crazy. It is ice. It is slippery. Dress accordingly. Bring an extra layer like a sweater or jacket. It is cool (and if windy, will be cold).

I loved this tour. It was so informative. Jessica was our driver on the glacier. Great job Jessica. 

Mitch picked us up from the glacier pick up point and took us to the Glacier Skywalk. But that's a different review. 

Highly recommend both tours. "
"For a centre that informs us that global warming and climate change have seen this glacier reduce so significantly, that at current rates it will be gone by 2100 - they don't seem to have an issue contributing to the problem by running bus after bus back and forth, having people walking on the glacier and running bus after bus back and forth to the skywalk (waste of money, don't bother)
The glacier is stunning, it's sad to see how much it's receded - but don't contribute to its demise all for the sake of the $"
"Depends upon your view of Climate Change
We did this as part of a bus tour on our way to Lake Louise. I must say that I found it interesting, but I would not do it again as these giant ice buses drive you up to the glacier, you get off the bus, walk around for 15 minutes, get back on the giant bus with giant tires and go back to the tour bus. The trip up and back to the glacier takes much longer than the time you stand on the glacier. And guess what, it is melting FAST and you can see just how much by viewing pictures of where it was just a few years ago. I felt guilty as an environmentally conscientious person to be doing this. You can view the glacier from the place across the street and not contribute to it demise."
"I am so glad that I visited this Icefield. With some people saying that it wasn't worth going, I think that it is. Yes, it's quite expensive, but how long will we be able to experience a walk on a glacier? Just by looking at the markers on the way to it, one can see how much it has retreated since the 1940's. It's an eye opener to how much our climate has impacted on the ice fields. The Skywalk is breath taking also as when you are driving we take in the beautiful mountains, but rarely pause to look at the valley."
"Travelling through Icefield Parkway was one of the most exciting road trips in Canada. Absolutely stunning images of the Rocky Mountains in the middle of summer with snow on peaks and green forests in lower parts. Every turn on the highway brings surprise. The glacial has retreated a lot over the years so there is a little g walk but it's totally worthy, makes you think about climate change impact on our environment"
It would great if the park and the guides could stick to geology and glaciology. Everybody insists on talking about nothing other than climate change. Columbia Ice Field has not changed appreciably in more than a century (with year to year temperature changes always factoring in). The guides feel that it is their responsibility to make everyone apologize and commit hara-kiri over the climate change theories that they have bought into. This makes a beautiful visit to a natural wonder almost banal.
"Climate change, a realisation!
My wife and I visited the ice field on 13/09. We were on a Rocky Mountaineer tour with Brewsters, so once our driver had secured our tickets, we were transported up to the SnoCoach terminal and were soon being directed to one of specially built coaches.

We were transported on to the glacier on coach 543, which was driven by Connor. He did a wonderful job of explaining the geology and science of the area, the glaciers, plus the development and performance characteristics of the coach.

It's when you discover where the ice was in 1840 (the location of the centre by the Icefields Parkway) and how 2 other glaciers (including the one coming off Mt Andromeda) used to feed into the main Athabasca one, that you realise how much climate change and global warming has effected our planet.

We were allowed to step off the bus and explore the safe area that had been marked out for visitors to get the feel of a glacier beneath their feet.

Although it is very commercialised and regimented, this attraction offers us 'non-explorer' types the opportunity to walk on a glacier and to learn how it has been created and moves.

Safety tip - please make sure you take some warm clothes, decent shoes, sunglasses and sunscreen."
"It would be hard not to stop if passing anyway but I would encourage anyone visiting either Jasper or Bamff to make the round trip to the Columbia ice fields. The scenery in the Rockies national parks is so spectacular from the road that the hidden interiors of the ranges: the glaciated, barren ridges and razor peaks obscured behind the lush forests and eye catching lower rocky peaks. If you are visiting the mountains by car (and good for you, it's a great way to see the country), the drive up to the ice fields is really the only chance to see this high-altitude landscape. 
The terrifying pace this glacier is retreating is another reason to see this for yourself. So impressive still in scale is the remaining portion that it is hard to imagine the glacier 100 years ago pouring out of this valley and branching out north and south down the great central spine of the Rockies. 
The climate here is changing, and at a pace and scale that you will see firsthand at few other places on earth."
"Even though the main building is insanely busy we purchased our tickets on the way to Jasper and took the tour on the way back down so didn't have long to wait. Bus ride was short and just fine. Our driver on the Ice Bus was fantastic and made the trip to the ice field lots of fun.

The ice field itself was quite something to see. Drinking water directly from the run-off was great. So cold and super refreshing.

Sad to see the ice field retreating and is a great way to educate on the climate."
"skip the Discovery Center and drive across the highway to the parking lot to begin your hike to the toe of the glacier. Other options are to buy tickets to be driven to the glacier, to walk on the glacier, etc.

Nice little hike to the toe of the glacier. Not too strenuous, but a slight elevation change, so not so easy with a stroller. Of course, you can’t get on to the glacier due to the danger, but that’s true of almost all glaciers. Nice place to get a close up photo of a glacier.

The most useful information gleaned at the Discovery Center (actually, the information is in the parking lot) is about the changes in the size of the icefield. Rather ironic to see all those cars in the parking lot, thinking about climate change and retreat of the glacier "
"Firstly, there appears to be some confusion, about what reviews under this subject heading relate to. I understand this to relate to the Columbia Icefield and not experiences relating to trips on to the Columbia Glacier by ""Ice Explorer"" vehicle, which are probably more appropriately reviewed under ""Columbia Icefield Glacier Adventure"". The Ice Field glacier is easily seen from the Icefields Parkway road and information is available in the Discovery Centre on the opposite side of the road. The area and depth of the snow/ice are quite staggering to those of us that live in more temperate regions. Disappointing is the fact that changes in climate are resulting in the size of the glacier reducing gradually each year. Is this inflicted by the human race? Whilst glaciers can be seen elsewhere the extent of this Ice Field is truly impressive. A major feature of the Icelands Parkway"
"The Ice Field was a must stop for our group of 9 seniors from the US, who gather each year to tour national parks. The walk up to the Athabasca Glacier was especially worth the stop. Interpretive signs indicate how much the glacier has receded over the decades due to climate change. On our way up to the Athabasca Glacier we met a woman from Minnesota, who was carrying a photo from 1973 of where the snout of the glacier was at that time--all the way to the present parking lot. A visit here will expand your consciousness about the age of our planet and our collective responsibility to steward it wisely."
"We booked our combo adventure package to the Athabasca Glacier through Brewster Travels. When we reached the information center, we were taken via a coach bus to board the Ice Explorer. Make sure to reach there early in the morning to beat the crowd. Our captain was 'Emma' and she was really knowledgeable about the glaciers and its surroundings. It is sad to learn that in about 75-100 years the glacier will melt and it gives us more reasons to take climate change seriously."
The ice fields continues to shrink every day. As climate changes so does the earth. I am pretty sure having all that traffic on the glacier and all the vehicles in the area don't help. Go visit before they are gone.
It is a bit sad to think that my great grandchildren would probably not be able to see this and all because the world governments will not accept that climate change is real.
Climate change is real and can be seen here. One gets a clear view of the glacier and how much it has retreated over the years. The visitor center was crowded and the parking lot was packed. A great place to see.
"This is a must stop on the Ice Field Parkway. You get a glimpse of the ice field but what you really get a good view of is the Athabasca Glacier. The Visitor Center will be crowded with buses and RV's, but if you've never seen a glacier this is the place to get some background. From the Visitor Center drive across the road over to the parking lot. You can walk about 500 yards uphill from a parking lot and get great views of the glacier. But if you have the time and want the experience there are glacier walking tours. I've walked and climbed on glaciers so we didn't do this here. But if you've never be on ice-do the tour. You'll get good information about the history of glaciers and their disappearance and of course a walk on the ice. The last time I was here was 1982. The ice has retreated almost 1/2 mile since then. Climate change is real and in case you have any doubts a visit to the Athabasca Glacier will change your mind."
"Climate change
The glacier has receded dramatically It's worth going to see. But it used to be all the way to the highway not that long ago Too bad"
"Evidence of warming climate
The glacier has greatly receded since my first visit in 1982. Unable to walk on glacier due to melt water creek across the glacier toe - unless a tour is purchased. The hike was not as much fun as previous years but a learning experience for a"
"Athabasca glacier is visible from the Icefields Parkway. Due to climate change, it is sad to see that the glacier currently recedes at a rate of about 5 meters per year and lost half of its original volume!!! Since its close to the parkway and easy to access, it is one the most visited and photographed glaciers. Travel onto the glacier is not recommended unless properly equipped and accompanied by professionals! Do not forget to take warm clothes with you... It will be a unique and unforgettable experience :-)"
"Seeing the ice field and glacier were part of our tour plan so we wanted to experience it. The building where the buses pick up tourists to take you to the glacier was jam packed with people. There is a nice film and photo dispay on the lower level; we'd recommended that vs the chaos of the store and lobby area. We spent a lot of time waiting for our time slot to take the bus to the glacier and after standing 5 minutes in sleet and rain on the glacier, we were done. Its nice to see but is a crowded tourist attraction. We questioned whether this is abusing the environment given climate change and the melting of the glaciers? Saw it, won't do it ever again."
"The scenery is spectacular and wildlife abundant all along the way. If you have a 'climate change denier' in your family, perhaps s/he would be interested in seeing how far the glaciers have retreated so far this millennium. I was stunned in the loss of ice just in the two years since my last visit. Still pretty awesome, but also a great lesson in 'green'."
"Its a great spectacular that - due to climate change is shrinking. You have to drive to get there and a few hundred years ago, it came right up to the road but now its receded quite a way. Some of the oldest ice on the planet is here. Wow !"
"One of the biggest glaciers you can see from a road. Lots of tourists but absolutely worth visiting whether you go walking on it, take the big bus or just go up to the end of the glacier. A real example of how climate change changes the environment."
"Climate change writ large
The most impressive thing was the walk up to the glacier past the small signs which show where the glacier used to be. The retraction even within my life time is astounding. I didnt think the commercial operations of the skywalk and the bus trip out to the glacier were worth doing, but the short walk to the toe of the glacier certainly was. If there was a helicopter ride up to the icefield proper I would certainly have done that, just to get a sense of the scale of the thing. I didnt like the fact that the commercial operators and the parks service were in the same building, many tourists seemed to be confused about the different roles of the two. The AV presentation of the parks service was pathetic, it didnt give me any information about the glacier formation and status but was a feel good piece about kids growing up, i just didnt get it."
"I was in two minds as to the ethicacy of the trip on to the glacier. After all, a procession of huge vehicles moving on to the ice many times a day can hardly help the glacier, which we know is in a parlous start, as are most others. The trip itself was an unusual and amazing experience - and when are most of us going to get this opportunity? Some Canadians I talked to said it must be O.K. or the authorities wouldn't allow it. I'm not sure, but if it helps more of us to be aware of climate change, and the need to do what we can, than I guess I can live with my conscience."
Taking busses on a glacier is one hell of a stupid idea. We're always talking about how the climate change destroys the glacier and then they take stupid busses on it so people could take photos? Just don't do it. It's so expensive and really not worth it. Stop the busses!
"It astonishes me that people think it's ok to travel up this glacier on a huge bus and then lament its passing as a result of man-made climate change.

Having said that, like so many others in Canada, I drove up in a huge US-style 4x4 that was giving 14mpg while I was using it.

This is just something you will pass while driving the Ice Fields Parkway - an utterly spectacular drive that is unmissable in itself.

I returned to this attraction after a gap of 8 years; sadly, it had retreated 2-300 feet in that time and there was a quite forbidding river of melted ice running across its foot barring access.

A bit sad really but I ain't gonna take that big ugly bus."
"Sad to see what Brewster and Climate change have done to this attraction.
Last visit 30 years ago, at that time a unique adventure. Brewster (the operating company) has now created a monster with monster people movers onto the glacier, monster gift shops and monster toilets (the dirtiest in the entire Nat. Parks)
The glacier itself is shrinking at a rate that 2 generations from now there will be a plaque ""here used to be...."" 
The price to go onto the glacier is an astronomical $70 p.p. and even the other monstrosity , a walk way overlooking the same area you used to overlook from the highway at $40 is very high in my opinion.
However in the National Parks, Brewster is the only ""independent"" that can call the shots re. transportation as well as most attractions.
Having said all that it is still an amazing site to see and the Icefields Parkway is most amazing road in Canada"
"This was the second time I have been out here & I just love it. What an amazing experience with friendly, knowledgeable drivers. It's not cheap but not only is it a remarkable experience but if it encourages people to think about climate change & human impact then it is worth it's weight in gold."
"Sad to see the retreat that has occurred in five years
The glaciers are in my view always worth seeing. The sad part is seeing how much they have receded since 1975 and again how much since 2009. See them before they are all gone and if you doubt climate change then this will demonstrate what man is doing to the planet. Brewster needs to stop taking the buses up on to the Glacier!!"
"To see the amount the glacier has receded in the past 50 years was a humbling reminder of climate change.. Beautiful walk about the bottom to see the well marked, yearly measurements."
"Our tour bus arrived at the Ice Field Centre where we loaded onto a second bus. The amount of glacier melt in the past 100 years due to climate change here is mind blowing! The Ice Field is surrounded by numerous glaciers. Being driven in the Glacier Buggies onto the main ice field is a ride to remember, as the ""road surface"" is constantly changing. We were let out onto the ice fields themselves to explore within the roped off areas. Drinking free flowing glacier water that had been previously frozen for thousands of years is an amazing experience. Pictures in front of the Canadian flag that had been placed in front of the main free flowing glacier stream next to people from all over the world was awe-inspiring. Yes, this is an expensive tour! However, it is a once in a lifetime trip to a vanishing glacier. Once it's gone, it's not coming back! Well worth the cost in scenic beauty alone."
"Our environment in retreat
It is almost forty years since I first visited the Columbia Icefield. In that so short period of time the glacier has retreated at an ever increasing pace and a visit underlines the climate change taking place on our planet provoking sobering thought."
"I'll probably never get to Antarctica, so the Columbia Ice Field will have to do. Approaching it on the parkway from the south, the view of this massive ice sheet spreading down from the Continental Divide is something you won't find much of in the Lower 48 of the US these days. At the top of the Divide, the ice sheet feeds rivers that flow in all directions - to the Pacific, the Arctic and the Atlantic. But the best part is the chance to ride out (in a special snow vehicle) onto the Ice Sheet and walk on it yourself. The wind, the cold, the view up the mountain are all elements of a great experience that most of us will never have anywhere else. Along the way, the guide explains how the glacier functions and how it has shrunk over the last 150 years. A visit here is a unique way to understand what is happening to earth's climate in our own lifetimes."
"Given the cost of the adventure, saying you did this when a lot of the glaciers have disappeared due to climate change will be the real value. Other than that, you see the marvel of this location just as well from the bottom of the glacier as you do from the top and you save a boat load of money."
"Beautiful places even even with the wildfire smoke
We did the Big Bertha lake hike, Sherbrooke lake hike and the Wapta and Takakkaw falls - nice choice of trails from easy to overnight available and a good Tourist info office in Field"
"I visited in June and I have to say I was disappointed. The much talked of emerald color was not present, more of a grey green. Maybe the pumps were not working properly? I don't know. The mountains and all was very pretty but not enough food franchises or other facilities. 
Pretty amazing to think this was all under the ocean in the time of the flood. They have all sorts of fossils not far from here with fish and whales and other sea creatures. Glory be to God."
"We werent lucky because of the smoky weather (wildfires in alberta and bc) so not a great view on the moutains, but the lake color was there: emerald !!"
"Because of the massive wildfires in BC our ‘pristine view’ of this lake was a bit compromised but it is still beautiful. Several trails start here. We took the Hamilton Falls 800 meter trail which was an easy to moderate short hike the falls were barely visible. Parking was very full. 
We would return if we came to this area again."
"We had a chance to visit this beautiful lake when we were visiting Banff and had the privilege to stay at the adjacent lodge. The lake is absolutely beautiful, the waters are slightly cloudy but blue (really blue!).

On the day of arrival, we strolled around the lake, enjoying its different views along the track. Next morning, we tried canoeing, which cost $60/hour. We thought this was pretty pricey, before knowing that it was much more expensive at other lakes in the region. Canoeing was fun, especially at 9 AM when the canoe rent starts. At that time, there were only three canoes on the waters, allowing us to enjoy a tranquil time, with the view of the water, forest and the mountains surrounding the lake. 

The wildfires in BC made it a bit smokey, but the scenery was well worth the visit. Definitely a must-go when in Yoho National Park."
"One of the top attractions at Yoho National Park, Emerald Lake is a very pretty lake. We enjoyed a stop here with a walk half way around the lake (clockwise from the parking lot). When the trail veered away from the lake, we retraced our steps back to the parking lot so that we could continue to enjoy the views of the lake. We also enjoyed walking through the lovely Emerald Lake Lodge area. Hot drinks are available at a walkup window in this area.

Unfortunately for us, we were visiting Field and Yoho National Park during the days that the Washington state wildfire smoke was blowing up into the Canadian Rockies. The beautiful blue color was muted in our photographs, but we are still glad that we visited.

Be sure to also stop at Natural Bridge. It is located on the same road, just off the highway"
"I was fortunate to get bus tickets in the few seconds they were available on April 20th. We had tried unsuccessfully for several days to get camping permits by phone. We felt very lucky to get bus passes knowing how many people wanted to be there. Then we saw some people on buses who had gotten passes through a tour agency who said they had passes for the previous day also but didn't go because it was too cold. Knowing how many people wanted those passes, I thought it was unbelievable, but I guess tour companies operate under different rules than individuals. The area was hazy from wildfires when we went but it was still spectacular, like being at Moraine Lake without the crowds. We hiked to Lake Oesa and the Opabin Prospect overlook and around Lake O'Hara. The turquoise glacial lakes and pristine mountain scenery were awesome. If you want to go you need to have everything ready to go in April to click at the right moment and be lucky. There are a few other loopholes to get there, but the ones I know of are very expensive. If you are fortunate to get a pass or if you decide to hike in, you will love it"
" was prepared on Apr 20 2017 morning to book 6 tickets for the day use shuttle for our family (my parents, me and hubby, and our kids age 2 and 4). In 5 seconds all the tickets are gone!!! At the end, I only got one ticket for Aug 8 2017. So frustrated!! My parents are 70s, me and my hubby are 40s and pretty fit, but our kids are too young to hike up the 11km trail. At the end, we found a daycare service in Lake Louise ski resort and left our kids there. 
On the day, my husband took the one ticket and rode the shuttle bus at 8:30am. He had enough time to go to Oesa Lake and West Opabin trails. My 70-year old parents and I started from the parking lot at 9:05am, hiked up the 11km, and arrived Lake O'Hara at 12:20. It was not easy for my parents, but doable. The road is wide mostly gradual up, at some segments a little steep for them. 
We had a quick lunch at the Relais -- hot chocolate and cold coke are such blessings! We started Lake O'Hara circuit at 12:55 and finished it in about 1hr10mins. We took breaks to take photos, but because we wanted to line up for the 2:30pm bus early, we were a little bit rushed. The park ranger started head count at 2:25pm, at that time they know how many seats will be available for the first-come-first-serve hikers. It turned out there were enough for everyone -- such a relief!
My husband hiked a big loop, up to Oesa Lake, Opabin Lake, Mary Lake and back to Relais at around 1pm. All 4 of us rode the 2:30pm bus out. 
So if you don't have a ticket for the shuttle bus and are averagely fit, consider to hike up the 11km. The view of Lake O'Hara totally worth the effort! All of us are very glad we did it. The day we went, it was slightly smoky due to the wildfire. Still, we are amazed by the view. I definitely will come back in the future!"
Marble Canyon is a beautiful canyon in the Kootenay National Park. The path is easy to walk and relatively flat. My friend and I loved the colours and the thundering roar of the canyon. Parks Canada was at the entrance to assist with helpful advice and information. It wasn't the best of days that we were there as the BC bush fires were getting a little close for comfort. So we didn't stay as long as we wanted or do the loop to the Ink Pot - later we discovered the path to the Ink Pots had been washed away in the floods.
"We did the interpretive trail hike around Marble Canyon and also the longer hike from the canyon to Paint Pots. Much of that hike is on basically level ground, going through an area that was burned in a forest fire about 10 years ago. Later on, there is some up and down, but the hike is pretty easy overall. The Paint Pots area is interesting; be sure to continue all the way up to the spring-fed pools at the end. This hike is currently the only way to reach the Paint Pots, since a bridge from the parking lot closer to them washed out last fall. We hadn't originally planned to go into Kootenay on this trip, but Sunshine Meadows in Banff was still closed due to the recent floods, so we chose this as our alternative for the day. We were glad we had the opportunity to explore a little bit of this park."
"Nice 30 minute hike up to the top. Wildfire destroyed a large part of the forest 14 years ago but the new trees growing and the flowers visible below with the grey colours from the dead trees brings beauty to the forest. The water is stunning, the rocks clearly visible and totally glorious."
"Marble Canyon is fantastic as a quick side trip from the much more heavily trafficked Banff National Park. Despite the lack of tourists around, the scenery in and around the Canyon itself is not lacking in the slightest. It's an easy loop to and from the parking lot, but make sure to stop by the red chairs which are just slightly out of the way. Water does some amazing things, and this canyon is a great place to see firsthand what it's done. Also, the wildfire that passed through here a few years back makes it an even more unique experience."
"This is not in the current brochure given when you enter the park. We had one that was 4 years old and it had the information. They had a flood that took out the bridge to the site, but they have a beautiful new bridge and they are working on their signage. The trail was cleared and a very easy walk. They describe it as a cold iron-rich mineral springs that bubble into pools. The Aboriginal people would come here to collect it, bake it into loaves and use those for pigment for their paintings. The only fee for this attraction is the one fee you pay for all the parks."
Marble Canyon is a beautiful canyon in the Kootenay National Park. The path is easy to walk and relatively flat. My friend and I loved the colours and the thundering roar of the canyon. Parks Canada was at the entrance to assist with helpful advice and information. It wasn't the best of days that we were there as the BC bush fires were getting a little close for comfort. So we didn't stay as long as we wanted or do the loop to the Ink Pot - later we discovered the path to the Ink Pots had been washed away in the floods.
"We did the interpretive trail hike around Marble Canyon and also the longer hike from the canyon to Paint Pots. Much of that hike is on basically level ground, going through an area that was burned in a forest fire about 10 years ago. Later on, there is some up and down, but the hike is pretty easy overall. The Paint Pots area is interesting; be sure to continue all the way up to the spring-fed pools at the end. This hike is currently the only way to reach the Paint Pots, since a bridge from the parking lot closer to them washed out last fall. We hadn't originally planned to go into Kootenay on this trip, but Sunshine Meadows in Banff was still closed due to the recent floods, so we chose this as our alternative for the day. We were glad we had the opportunity to explore a little bit of this park."
"Nice 30 minute hike up to the top. Wildfire destroyed a large part of the forest 14 years ago but the new trees growing and the flowers visible below with the grey colours from the dead trees brings beauty to the forest. The water is stunning, the rocks clearly visible and totally glorious."
"Marble Canyon is fantastic as a quick side trip from the much more heavily trafficked Banff National Park. Despite the lack of tourists around, the scenery in and around the Canyon itself is not lacking in the slightest. It's an easy loop to and from the parking lot, but make sure to stop by the red chairs which are just slightly out of the way. Water does some amazing things, and this canyon is a great place to see firsthand what it's done. Also, the wildfire that passed through here a few years back makes it an even more unique experience."
"This is not in the current brochure given when you enter the park. We had one that was 4 years old and it had the information. They had a flood that took out the bridge to the site, but they have a beautiful new bridge and they are working on their signage. The trail was cleared and a very easy walk. They describe it as a cold iron-rich mineral springs that bubble into pools. The Aboriginal people would come here to collect it, bake it into loaves and use those for pigment for their paintings. The only fee for this attraction is the one fee you pay for all the parks."
This building will emit 6.3 tons of GHG emissions per year. We need more of this! @KaroleenaInc #banffnationalpark 
"In the global warming ""news you can use"" category, the ticks are out in #BanffNP. ""Don't feed the ticks."""
Replying to @BlairCosgrove .@BlairCosgrove Maybe a big animated glacier that retreats due to #Climate change? #AbLeg #BanffNP #AGW #CdnPoli #Design #Culture
Thinking about world peace and global warming.  Stuff like that.  #banffnationalpark #morainelake… https://instagram.com/p/7lGO-XRtq9/ 
#ParksCanada changes #JohnsonLake #whirlingdisease mitigation plans http://www.rmoutlook.com/article/Parks-changes-Johnson-Lake-whirling-disease-mitigation-plans-20180412#.WtDSW4msQgA.twitter … #BanffNP
#BanffNP #rockiescom idling for an hour? What's up global warming?!? 
Lake Louise and Lake Agnes (+ some wildfire smoke) from back in August #lakelouise #banffnationalpark #banff #banffcanada #banfflakelouise #banfflakelouisetourism #venturebeyond #freshairandfreedom #thatpnwlake #pnwisbeautiful #pnwonderland
"Canada's most scenic off-leash dog park a little less scenic today, due to smoky skies. #wildfire #banffnp #kootenaynp #canmore #bowvalley"
"The wildfire smoke cleared for a few minutes, enough to catch this color. 
.
.
#piscesinparis #banff #banffnationalpark #canada #alberya #artinspiration #turquoise #alisonpriceart #alisonprice #glacier #glacialmelt #climatechange "
Fuck wildfire and polution!!! . . . #lakelouise #banffnationalpark #canada???? #canada #lake #naturelovers #hiking #lago #wildfire en Fairmont Chateau Lake Louise 
.@BlairCosgrove Maybe a big animated glacier that retreats due to #Climate change? #AbLeg #BanffNP #AGW #CdnPoli #Design #Culture
#Wildfire in #BanffNationalPark grows to 300 hectares via @calgaryherald 
Wildfire in Banff National Park grows to 300 hectares http://calgaryherald.com/news/local-news/wildfire-in-banff-national-park-grows-to-300-hectares/ … #snarlpeak #wildfire #banffnp #dry #alberta
Lightning causes wildfire in Banff National Park backcountry http://calgaryherald.com/news/local-news/lightning-causes-wildfire-in-banff-national-park-backcountry/ … #wildfires #westerncanada #alberta #banffnp #parks
Crews are building a helipad on the ridge. #wildfire #banffnp 
"Arrived at Sask River Crossing in #BanffNP. Smoky here, but it's apparently coming in from B.C. fire. Can't see the mountains. #wildfire"
"@AENV_SRD #wildfire crews letting huge blaze near #BanffNationalPark burn. Why, and what's #Alberta fire situation?"
Only thing is... Our plans for hiking have been ruined and most of us are leaving #Banff by Thursday. #ClimateChange 
Mount Rundle #Banff #canada150 #parks seen thru #smokeandfire #climatechange #bcfires @ The… 
Smoky valley #banffnationalpark Ash fall today as BC fires move east #climatechange #forestfires…
Truth. #DryLand #Destiny #climatechange @ Banff National Park 
#NorthAmerican #actuaries say #carbontax is an effective way to address the rising #insurance costs of #climatechange severe #weatherevents Time to take the hard steps. #350.org
"#WorthTwoTweets #WorthQuoting ""Yes, that's the point."" In the age of #climatechange #mitigation #adaptation #information access plays #CriticalRole Can #SaveLives @GeorgeMonbiot"
Smoky mountains????????#smoke #smoky #rockies #banff #canada #WH2015 #wildfire #air @ Banff Gondola…
Promoting active lifestyles & reduced emissions/animal mortalities are benefits of Icefields trail. #jaspernp #cpaws http://www.fitzhugh.ca/icefields-trailproject-a-positive-idea/ …
"#JasperNationalPark ! Ah, lovely, even despite the wildfire haze. Great times with friends & so…"
Medicine Lake after the fire #jasper #jaspernationalpark #wildfire #charcoal #snow #willow
Global Warming sucks! . . . #glaciar #athabascaglacier #jaspernationalpark #canada???? #canada #naturelovers #globalwarming #nature #naturephotography en Athabasca Glacier
#JasperNP #Alberta: evidence that human influences superseded climatic variation to explain fire presence in 20th century. Suppression altered the #wildfire regime after the formation of Jasper National Park 
Exploring Athabasca #Glacier en route to @JasperNP. Puts things into #perspective. #globalwarming #ExploreCanada
Standing next to a piece of the melting #athabasca #glacier. Due to #globalwarming this #glacier will… 
Parks Canada Working With BC Wildfire Service to Manage Growing Whitetail Creek Wildfire #BCwildfire #KootenayNP #ColumbiaValley
"Meachen Creek Wildfire Nearly 7,000 Hectares, Wardle Wildfire in Kootenay National Park ""Being Held"" #BCwildfire #Kimberley #Cranbrook #Fernie #ElkValley #ColumbiaValley #KootenayNP "
Public Information Meeting Wednesday in Kimberley as Regional Wildfire Fight Continues #Kimberley #Fernie #Sparwood #Invermere #KootenayNP #BCwildfire
"Canada's most scenic off-leash dog park a little less scenic today, due to smoky skies. #wildfire #banffnp #kootenaynp #canmore #bowvalley"
@jordanwitzel here's a photo I didn't jazz up of the #wildfire at #KootenayNP! 
"A huge #wildfire #roared through the #kootenaynationalpark years ago, so #amazing the #benefits what… "
Life after Death: Fireweed flourishes after wildfire. #kootenaynationalpark #bc #britishcolumbia #fireweed #fores
